ACID SPLASH
Conjuration calltrip
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feel
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou hurl a bubble of acid. Choose one creature within
range, or choose two crealures within range thal are
wilhin 5 feet of each other. A target must succeed on a
Dexterity saving throw or lake Id6 acid damage.
This spell's damage increases by Id6 when you reach
5th leveI (2d6), 11th leveI (3d6), and 17lh leveI (4d6).
AID
2nd-leveI abjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S, M (a tiny strip of while clOlh)
Duration: 8 hours
Your spell bolsters your allies with toughness and
resolve. Choose up to three crealures within range.
Each target's hit poinl maximum and current hit points
increase by 5 for the duration.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd leveI or higher, a largel's hit points
increase by an additional 5 for each slot leveI above 2nd.
ALARM
1st-leveI abjuration (ritual)
Casting Time: I minule
Range: 30 feet
Components: V.S, M (a tiny bell and a piece of fine silver wire)
Duration: 8 hours
Vou seI an alarm against unwanted inlrusion. Choose
a door. a window, or an area wilhin range that is no
larger lhan a 20-foot cube. Until lhe spell ends. an alarm
alerts you whenever a Tiny or larger creature louches
or enters lhe warded area. When you cast the spell, you
can designale crealures lhat won't set off the alarmo Vou
also choose whether the alarm is mental or audible.
A mental alarm alerts you with a ping in your mind
ifyou are within I mile of the warded area. This ping
awakens you ifyou are sleeping.
An audible alarm produces lhe sound of a hand bell
for 10 seconds within 60 feel.
ALTER SELF
2nd-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: I action
Range: SeIf
Components: V,S
Duration: Concenlralion. up to I hour
Vou assume a different formoWhen you cast lhe spell.
choose one of the following options, the effects of which
last for the duralion of the spell. While lhe spelllasts,
PART3SPELLS2Il
----------------Page (0) Break----------------
212
you can end one oplion as an aclion lo gain lhe benefils
of a differenl one.
AquaticAdaptation.Vouadapl your body lo an
aqualic environmenl, sprouting gills and growing
webbing belween your fingers. Voucan brealhe
underwaler and gain a swimming speed equal lo your
walking speed.
Change Appearance.Voulransform your appearance.
Voudecide whal you look like, including your heighl,
weighl, facial fealures, sound ofyour voice, hair lenglh,
coloralion, and dislinguishing characlerislics, if any,
Voucan make yourself appear as a member of anolher
race, lhough none of your slalislics change. Voualso
can'l appear as a crealure of a differenl size lhan you,
and your basic shape slays lhe same; ifyou're bipedal,
you can'l use lhis spell lo become quadrupedal, for
inslance. AI any lime for lhe duralion of lhe spell, you
can use your action lOchange your appearance in
lhis way again.
Natural  Weapons.Vougrow claws, fangs, spines,
horns, or a differenl nalural weapon of your choice. Your
unarmed slrikes deal ld6 bludgeoning, piercing, or
slashing damage, as appropriale lo lhe nalural weapon
you chose, and you are proficienl wilh your unarmed
slrikes. Finally, lhe natural weapon is magic and you
have a +1 bonus lo lhe atlack and damage rolls you
make using it.
ANIMAL FRIENDSHIP
lst.level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 aclion
Range: 30 feel
Components: V,S, M(a morsel of food)
Duration: 24 hours
This spelllels you convince a beasl lhal you mean il no
harm. Choose a beasl lhal you can see wilhin range.
It musl see and hear you.Irlhe beast's Inlelligence is
4 or higher, lhe spell fails. Olherwise, lhe beasl musl
succeed on a Wisdom saving lhrow or be charmed
byyou for lhe spell's duralion. Ifyou or one ofyour
companions harms lhe largel, lhe spells ends.
At Higher LeveIs.When you casl lhis spell using
a spell sI01of 2nd leveIor higher, you can affecl one
addilional beasl for each slol leveIabove 1st.
ANIMAL MESSENGER
2nd.level enchantment  (ritual)
Casting Time: 1aclion
Range: 30 feel
Components: V,S, M(a morsel of food)
Duration: 24 hours
By means of lhis spell, you use an animal to deliver a
message. Choose a Tiny beasl you can see wilhin range,
such as a squirrel, a blue jay, or a bat. Vouspecify a
localion, which you musl have visiled, and a recipienl
who malches a general descriplion, such as "a man or
woman dressed in lhe uniform of lhe town guard" or "a
red.haired dwarf wearing a poinled hat." Voualso speak
a message of up lOlwenly-five words. The largel beasl
lravels for lhe duralion of lhe spell loward lhe specified
PART 3ISPELLS
localion, covering aboul 50 miles per 24 hours for a
flying messenger, or 25 miles for olher animaIs.
When lhe messenger arrives, il delivers your message
lo lhe crealure lhal you described, replicating lhe sound
ofyour voice. The messenger speaks only lo a crealure
malching lhe descriplion you gave. If lhe messenger
doesn'l reach its deslinalion before lhe spell ends, lhe
message is losl, and lhe beasl makes ils way back to
where you casl lhis spell.
At Higher LeveIs.Ifyou casl lhis spell using a spell
slot of 3nd levei or higher, lhe duralion of lhe spell
increases by 48 hours for each slol levei above 2nd.
ANIMAL SHAPES
8th./evel transmutatioIl
Casting Time: 1 aclion
Range: 30 feel
Components: V,S
Duration: Concenlralion, up to 24 hours
Your magic lurns others into beasts. Choose any
number of willing crealures lhal you can see within
range. Voutransform each targel into the form of a
Large or smaller beasl wilh a challenge rating of 4 or
lower. On subsequent turns, you can use your action to
transform affected creatures inlo new forms.
The transformation lasls for lhe duration for each
largel, or until the target drops toOhit points or dies.
Voucan choose a different form for each larget. A
largel's game stalistics are replaced by the stalislics of
lhe chosen beast, though the largel relains ils alignmenl
and Inlelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores. The
largel assumes lhe hil poinls of ils new form, and when
it reverls lo ils normal form, il relurns to the number
of hil points it had before il lransformed. If il reverls as
a result of dropping toOhit poinls, any excess damage
carries over lo ils normal formoAs long as the excess
damage doesn'l reduce lhe crealure's normal form loO
hil poinls, it isn'l knocked unconscious. The creature is
limiled in lhe aclions il can perform by lhe nalure of its
new form, and it can'l speak or casl spells.
The largel's gear melds into lhe new formoThe largel
can't aclivate, wield, or olherwise benefil from any of
ils equipment.
ANIMATE DEAD
3rd./evel necromancy
Casting Time: 1 minule
Range: 10 feel
Components: V,S, M(a drop of blood, a piece of flesh,
and a pinch of bone dust)
Duration: Inslanlaneous
This spell creates an undead servant. Choose a pile
of bones or a corpse of a Medium or Small humanoid
within range. Your spell imbues lhe targel wilh a foul
mimicry of life, raising il as an undead crealure. The
largel becomes a skeleton ifyou chose bones or a
zombie ifyou chose a corpse (lhe DMhas lhe crealure's
game slalislics).
On each ofyour lurns, you can use a bonus aclion
lOmentally command any crealure you made with
lhis spell if lhe creature is within 60 feel ofyou (ifyou
----------------Page (1) Break----------------
An animated object is a construct with AC, hit points,
attacks, Strength, and Dexterity determined by its size.
Its Constitution is 10 and its Intelligence and Wisdom
control multi pie creatures, you can command any or all
of them at the same time, issuing the same command to
each one). Vou decide what action the creature will take
and where it will move during its next turn, or you can
issue a general command, such as to guard a particular
chamber or corridor. lf you issue no commands, the
creature only defends itself against hostile creatures.
Once given an order, the creature continues to follow it
until its task is complete.
The creature is under your control for 24 hours,
after which it stops obeying any command you've given
it. To maintain control of the creature for another
24 hours, you must cast this spell on the creature
again before the current 24-hour period ends. This
use of the spell reasserts your control over up to four
creatures you have animated with this spell, rather than
animating a new one.
At Higher Leve/s.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th leveI or higher, you animate or reassert
contraI over two additional undead creatures for each
slot levei above 3rd. Each of the creatures must come
from a different corpse or pile of bones.
ANIMATE OBJECTS
5th-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: I action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
Objects come to \ife at your command. Choose up to
ten nonmagical objects within range that are not being
worn or carried. Medium targets count as two objects,
Large targets count as four objects, Huge targets
count as eight objects. Vou can't animate any object
larger than Huge. Each target animates and becomes a
creature under your contrai until the spell ends or until
reduced to Ohit points.
As a bonus action, you can mentally command any
creature you made with this spell if the creature is
within 500 feet of you (ifyou contrai multiple creatures,
you can command any or all of them at the same time,
issuing the same command to each one). Vou decide
what action the creature will take and where it will
move during its next turn, or you can issue a general
command, such as to guard a particular chamber or
corridor. If you issue no commands, the creature only
defends itself against hostile creatures. Once given
an order, the creature continues to follow it until its
task is complete.
ANIMATED OB/ECT STATISTICS
Size    HP AC Attack
Tiny    20  18 +8 to hit, 1d4 + 4 damage
5mall   25  16 +6 to hit, ld8 + 2 damage
Medium  40  13 +5 to hit. 2d6 + 1 damage
Large   50  10 +6 to hit. 2dlO + 2 damage
Huge   80  10 +8 to hit. 2d12 + 4 damage
Str  Dex
4  18
6  14
10  12
14  10
18  6
are 3, and its Charisma is 1. Its speed is 30 feet; if the
object lacks legs or other appendages it can use for
locomotion, it instead has a f1yingspeed of 30 feet and
can hover. lf the object is securely attached to a surface
or a larger object, sue h as a chain bolted to a wall, its
speed is O.It has blindsight with a radius of 30 feet and
is b\ind beyond that distance. When the animated object
drops to Ohit points, it reverts to its original object
form, and any remaining damage carries over to its
original object formo
lf you command an object to attack, it can make a
single melee attack against a creature within 5 feet
of it. [t makes a slam attack with an attack bonus and
bludgeoning damage determined by its size. The DM
might rule that a specific object inflicts slashing or
piercing damage based on its formo
At Higher Leve/s.Ifyou cast this spell using a
spell slot of 6th leveI or higher, you can animate two
additional objects for each slot leveI above 5th.
ANTILIFE SHELL
5th-leveI abjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: Self (IO-foot radius)
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
A shimmering barrier extends out from you in a IO-foot
radius and moves with you, remaining centered on
you and hedging out creatures other than undead and
constrllcts. The barrier lasts for the duration.
The barrier prevents an affected creature from
passing or reaching through. An affected creature
can cast spells or make attacks with ranged or reach
weapons through the barrier.
If you move so that an affected creatllre is forced to
pass through the barrier, the spell ends.
ANTIMAGIC FIELD
8th-leveI abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (IO-foot-radius sphere)
Components: V,S, M (a pinch of powdered iron or
iron filings)
Duration: Concentration, up to I hour
A 10-foot-radius invisible sphere of antimagic surraunds
you. This area is divorced fram the magical energy that
suffuses the multiverse. Within the sphere, spells can't
be cast, summoned creatures disappear, and even magic
items become mundane. Unti! the spell ends, the sphere
moves with you, centered on you.
Spells and other magical effects, except those created
by an artifact or a deity, are suppressed in the sphere
and can't protrude into it. A slot expended to cast
a suppressed spell is consumed. While an effect is
suppressed, it doesn't function, but the time it spends
suppressed counts against its duration.
Targeted Effects.Spells and other magical effects,
such asma(jicmissi/e andcharm person,that target
a creature or an object in the sphere have no effect
on that target.
PART 3  SPELLS213
----------------Page (2) Break----------------
211
Areas  ofMagie.The area of another spell or magical
effect, such asfireball,can't extend into the sphere.
If the sphere overlaps an area of magic, the part of
the area that is covered by the sphere is suppressed.
For example, the liames created by awall of fireare
suppressed within the sphere, creating a gap in the wall
if the overlap is large enough.
Spells.Any active spell or other magical effect on a
creature or an object in the sphere is suppressed while
the creature or object is in i!.
Magie ltems.The properties and powers of
magic items are suppressed in the sphere. For
example, a+llongswordin the sphere functions as a
nonmagicallongsword.
A magic weapon's properties and powers are
suppressed if it is used against a target in the sphere or
wielded byan attacker in the sphere. If a magic weapon
or a piece of magic ammunition fully leaves the sphere
(for example, ifyou fire a magic arrow or throw a magic
spear at a target outside the sphere), the magic of the
item ceases to be suppressed as soon as it exits.
Magieal  TraveI.Teleportation and planar travei
fail to work in the sphere, whether the sphere is the
destination or the departure point for such magical
traveI. A portal to another location, world, or plane of
existence, as well as an opening to an extradimensional
space such as that created by therope trickspell,
temporarily doses while in the sphere.
Creatures  and Objeets.Acreature or object
summoned or created by magic temporarily winks out
of existence in the sphere. Such a creature instantly
reappears once the space the creature occupied is no
longer within the sphere.
Dispel Magie.Spells and magical effects such as
dispel magichave no effect on the sphere. Likewise, the
spheres created by differentantimagic fieldspells don't
nullify each other.
ANTIPATHy/SYMPATHY
8th~evelenchantment
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S, M (either a lump of alum soaked in
vinegar for theantipathyeffect or a drop of honey for
thesympathyeffect)
Duration: 10days
This spell attracts or repels creatures of your choice.
Voutarget something within range, either a Huge or
smaller object or creature or an area that is no larger
than a 200.foot cube. Then specify a kind of intelligent
creature, such as red dragons, goblins, or vampires.
Vouinvest the target with an aura that either attracts or
repels the specified creatures for the duration. Choose
antipathy or sympathy as the aura's effec!.
Antipathy.Thc cnchantmcnt causes creatures of the
kind you designated to feel an intense urge to leave the
area and avoid the targe!. When such a creature can
see the target or comes within 60 feet of it, the creature
must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or become
frightened. The creature remains frightened while it can
see the target or is within 60 feet of i!.While frightened
by the target, the creature must use its movement to
PART 3ISPELLS
move to the nearest safe spot from which it can't see
the targe!. If the creature moves more than 60 feet from
the target and can't see it, the creature is no longer
frightened, but the creature becomes frightened again if
it regains sight of the target or moves within 60 feet of i!.
Sympathy.The enchantment causes the specified
creatures to feel an intense urge to approach the target
while within 60 feet of it or able to see it. When such a
creature can see the target or comes within 60 feet of it,
the creature must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or
use its movement on each of its turns to enter the area
or move within reach of the targe!. When the creature
has done so, it can't willingly move away fram the targe!.
If the target damages or otherwise harms an affected
creature, the affected crealure can make a Wisdom
saving throw to end the effect, as described below.
Ending  the Elfeet.If an affected creature ends its
turn while not within 60 feet of the target or able to see
it, the creature makes a Wisdom saving thraw. On a
successful save, the creature is no longer affected by
the target and recognizes the feeling of repugnance or
attraction as magical. In addition, a creature affected by
the spell is allowed another Wisdom saving throw every
24 hours while the spell persists.
Acreature that successfully saves against this effect
is immune to it for 1 minute, after which time it can be
affected again.
ARCANE EYE
4th.level divination
Casting Time: 1action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S, M (a bit of bat fur)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1hour
Voucreate an invisible, magical eye within range that
hovers in the air for the duration.
Voumentally receive visual information fram the eye,
which has normal vision and darkvision out to 30 fee!.
The eye can look in every direction.
As an action, you can move the eye up to 30 feet in
any direction. There is no limit to how far away from
you the eye can move, but it can't enter another plane
of existence. Asolid barrier blocks the eye's movement,
but the eye can pass through an opening as small as 1
inch in diameter.
ARCANE GATE
6th.level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 500 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Voucreate linked teleportation portais that remain open
for the duration. Choose two points on the graund that
you can see, one point within 10 feet ofyou and one
point within 500 feet ofyou. A circular portal, 10 feet
in diameter, opens over each poin!. If the portal would
open in the space occupied by a creature, the spell fails,
and the casting is los!.
The portais are two.dimensional glowing rings
filledwith mist, hovering inches fram lhe ground and
----------------Page (3) Break----------------
perpendicular to it at the points you choose. A ring is
visible only from one side (your choice), which is the side
that functions as a portal.
Any creature or object entering the portal exits from
the other portal as if the two were adjacent to each
other; passing through a portal from the nonportal side
has no effect. The mist that fills each portal is opaque
and blocks vision through it. On your turn, you can
rotate the rings as a bonus action so that the active side
faces in a different direction.
ARCANE LOCK
2nd-leveI abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M (gold dust worth at least 25 gp,
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
Vou touch a closed door, window, gate, chest, or other
entryway, and it becomes locked for the duration. Vou
and the creatures you designate when you cast this
spell can open the object normally. Vou can also set a
password that, when spoken within 5 feet of the object,
suppresses this spell for 1 minute. Otherwise, it is
impassable until it is broken or the spell is dispelled or
suppressed. Castingknockon the object suppresses
arcane lockfor 10 minutes.
While affected by this spell, the object is more difficult
to break or force open; the DC to break it or pick any
locks on it increases by 10.
ARMOR OF AGATHYS
1st-leveI abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V,S, M (a cup of water)
Duration: 1 hour
A protective magical force surrounds you, manifesting
as a spectral frost that covers you and your gear.
Vou gain 5 temporary hit points for the duration. If a
creature hits you with a melee attack while you have
these hit points, the creature takes 5 cold damage.
At HigherLeve/s. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd levei or higher, both the temporary hit
points and the cold damage increase by 5 for each slot
leveI above 1st.
AR MS OF HADAR
1st-leveI conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (lO-foot radius)
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou invoke the power of Hadar, the Dark Hunger.
Tendrils of dark energy erupt from you and batter ali
creatures within 10 feet of you. Each creature in that
area must make a Strength saving throw. On a failed
save, a target takes 2d6 necrotic damage and can't take
reactions until its next turno On a successful save, the
creature takes half damage, but suffers no other effect.
At HigherLeve/s. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd leveI or higher, the damage increases by
Id6 for each slot leveI above 1st.
ASTRAL PROJECTION
9th-leveI necromancy
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: 10 feet
Components: V,S, M (for each creature you affect with
this spell, you must provide one jacinth worth at least
1,000 gp and one ornately carved bar of silver worth
at least 100 gp, ali of which the spell consumes)
Duration: Special
Vou and up to eight willing creatures within range
project your astral bodies into the Astral Plane (the
spell fails and the casting is wasted ifyou are already
on that plane). The material body you leave behind is
unconscious and in a state of suspended animation; it
doesn't need food or air and doesn't age.
Your astral body resembles your mortal form in
almost every way, replicating your game statistics and
possessions. The principal difference is the addition of
a silvery cord that extends from between your shoulder
blades and trails behind you, fading to invisibility after
1 fool. This cord is your tether to your material body. As
long as the tether remains intact, you can find your way
home. If the cord is cut-something  that can happen
only when an effect specifically states that it does-your
soul and body are separated, killing you instantly.
Your astral form can freely travei through the Astral
Plane and can pass through portais there leading to any
other plane. Ifyou enter a new plane or return to the
plane you were on when casting this spell, your body and
possessions are transported along the silver cord, allowing
you to re-enter your body as you enter the new plane.
Your astral form is a separate incarnation. Any damage
or other effects that apply to it have no effect on your
physical body, nor do they persist when you return to it.
The spell ends for you and your companions when
you use your action to dismiss il. When the spell ends,
the affected creature returns to its physical body,
and it awakens.
The spell might also end early for you or one of your
companions. A successfuldispel magicspell used
against an astral or physical body ends the spell for that
creature. If a creature's original body or its astral form
drops to Ohit points, the spell ends for that creature. If
the spell ends and the silver cord is intact, the cord pulls
the creature's astral form back to its body, ending its
state of suspended animation.
Ifyou are returned to your body prematurely, your
companions remain in their astral forms and must find
their own way back to their bodies, usually by dropping
to Ohit points.
AUGURY
2nd-levei divination (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Seif
Components: V,S, M (specially marked sticks, bones,
or similar tokens worth at least 25 gp)
Duration: Instantaneous
PART 3  SPELLS215
----------------Page (4) Break----------------
216
By casting gem-inlaid sticks, rolling dragon bones,
laying out ornate cards, or employing some other
divining tool, you receive an omen from an otherworldly
entity about the results of a specific course of action that
you plan to take within the next 30 minutes, The DM
chooses from the following possible omens:
Weal,for good results
Woe,for bad results
Weal and woe,for both good and bad results
Nothing,for results that aren't especially good or bad
The spell doesn't take into account any possible
circumstances that might change the outcome, such
as the casting of additional spells or the loss or gain
of a companion.
Ifyou cast the spell two or more times before
completing your next long rest, there is a cumulative 25
percent chance for each casting after the first that you
get a random reading. The DM makes this roll in secret.
AURA OF LIFE
4th-leveI abjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Life-preserving energy radiates from you in an aura with
a 30-foot radius. Until the spell ends, the aura moves
with you, centered on you. Each nonhostile creature
in the aura (including you) has resistance to necrotic
damage, and its hit point maximum can't be reduced. In
addition, a nonhostile, living creature regains I hit point
when it starts its turn in the aura with Ohit points.
AURA OF PURITY
4th-leveI abjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: Sei f (30-foot radius)
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Purifying energy radiates from you in an aura with a
30-foot radius. Until the spell ends, the aura moves
with you, centered on you. Each nonhostile creature
in the aura (including you) can't become diseased,
has resistance to poison damage, and has advantage
on saving throws against effects that cause any of the
following conditions: blinded, charmed, deafened,
frightened, paralyzed, poisoned, and stunned.
AURA OF VITALITY
3rd-level evocation
Casting Time: I action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
Healing energy radiates from you in an aura with a
30-foot radius. Until the spell ends, the aura moves with
you, centered on you. Vou can use a bonus action to
cause one creature in the aura (including you) to regain
2d6 hit points.
PART 3ISPEI.LS
AWAKEN
5th-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: 8 hours
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M (an agate worth at least 1,000 gp,
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
After spending the casting time tracing magical
pathways within a precious gemstone, you touch a Huge
or smaller beast or plant. The target must have either
no Intelligence score or an Intelligence of 3 or less. The
target gains an Intelligence of 10. The target also gains
the ability to speak one language you know. ]f the target
is a plant, it gains the ability to move its Iimbs, roots,
vines, creepers, and so forth, and it gains senses similar
to a human's. Your DM chooses statistics appropriate
for the awakened plant, such as the statistics for the
awakened shrub or the awakened tree.
The awakened beast or plant is charmed by you for
30 days or until you or your companions do anything
harmful to it. When the charmed condition ends,
the awakened creature chooses whether to remain
friendly to you, based on how you treated it while
it was charmed.
BANE
1st-leveI enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S, M (a drop of blood)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Up to three creatures of your choice that you can see
within range must make Charisma saving throws.
Whenever a target that fails this saving throw makes
an attack roll or a saving throw before the spell ends,
the target must roll a d4 and subtract the number rolled
from the attack roll or saving throw.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd levei or higher, you can target one
additional creature for each slot leveI above 1st.
BANISHING SMITE
5th-leveI abjuration
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
The next time you hit a creature with a weapon attack
before this spell ends, your weapon crackles with force,
and the attack deals an extra 5dlO force damage to the
target. Additionally, if this attack reduces the target
to 50 hit points or fewer, you banish it. If the target is
native to a different plane of existence than the one
you're on, the target disappears, returning to its home
plane. ]f the target is native to the plane you're on, the
creature vanishes into a harmless demiplane. While
there, the target is incapacitated. It remains there until
the spell ends, at which point the target reappears in the
space it left or in the nearest unoccupied space if that
space is occupied.
J
I
----------------Page (5) Break----------------
BEAST SENSE
2nd-level divination (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components:5
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Voutoucha willing beast. For the duration of the speIl,
you can use your action to see through the beast's eyes
and hear what it hears, and continue to do so until
youuse your action to return to your normal senses.
BARKSKIN
2nd-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,5,M (a handfuI of oak bark)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Vou touch a willing creature. Until the spel1 ends, the
target's skin has a rough, bark-like appearance, and the
target's AC can't be less than 16, regardless ofwhat kind
of armar it is wearing.
BEACON OF HOPE
3rd-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,5
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
This spel1 bestows hope and vitality. Choose any
number of creatures within range. For the duration,
each target has advantage on Wisdom saving throws
and death saving throws, and regains the maximum
number of hit points possible from any healing.
,
BANISHMENT
4th-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,5,M (an item distastefuI to the target)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Vou attempt to send one creature that you can see
within range to another plane of existence. The
target must succeed on a Charisma saving throw
ar be banished.
1fthe target is native to the plane of existence you're
on, you banish the target to a harmless demiplane.
While there, the target is incapacitated. The target
remains there until the spel1 ends, at which point the
target reappears in the space it left ar in the nearest
unoccupied space if that space is occupied.
1fthe target is native to a different plane of existence
than the one you're on, the target is banished with
a faint popping noise, returning to its home plane.
]f the spel1 ends before 1 minute has passed, the
target reappears in the space it left ar in the nearest
unoccupied space if that space is occupied. Otherwise,
the target doesn't returno
At Higher Levels.When you cast this spel1 using
a spel1 slot of 5th levei ar higher, you can target one
additional creature for each slot levei above 4th.
----------------Page (6) Break----------------
218
While perceiving through the beast's senses, you gain
the benefits of any special senses possessed by that
creature, though you are blinded and deafened to your
own surroundings,
BESTOW  CURSE
3rd-/evel nccromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1minute
You louch a creature, and that creature must succeed
on a Wisdom saving throw or become cursed for the
duration of the spelL When you cast this spell, choose
the nature of the curse from the following options:
Choose one ability score. While cursed, the target
has disadvantage on ability checks and saving throws
made with that ability score.
While cursed, the target has disadvantage on attack
rolls against you.
While cursed, the target must make a Wisdom sav-
ing throw at the start of each of its turns. lf it fails, it
wastes its action that turn doing nothing.
While the target is cursed, your attacks and spells
deal an extra ld8 necrotic damage to the target.
Aremove cursespell ends this effect. At the DM's
option, you may choose an alternative curse effect, but
it should be no more powerful than those described
above. The DMhas final say on such a curse's effect.
At Higher LeveIs.Ifyou cast this spell using a spell
slot of 4th levei or higher, the duration is concentration,
up to 10minutes. Ifyou use a spell slot of 5th levei or
higher, the duration is 8 hours. Ifyou use a spell slot of
7th level or higher, the duration is 24 hours. Ifyou use
a 9th levei spell slot, the spelllasts until it is dispelled.
Using a spell slot of 5th levei or higher grants a duration
that doesn't require concentration.
BIGBY'S HAND
5th-leveI evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S, M(an eggshell and a
snakeskin glove)
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
Youcreate a Large hand of shimmering, translucent
force in an unoccupied space that you can see within
range. The hand lasts for the spell's duration, and it
moves at your command, mimicking the movements of
your own hand.
The hand is an object that has AC20 and hit points
equal to your hit point maximum. lf it drops to Ohit
points, the spell ends. It has a Strength of 26 (+8)and a
Dexterity of 10(+0).The hand doesn't fillits spaee.
When you cast the spell and as a bonus action on your
subsequent turns, you can move the hand up to 60 feet
and then cause one of the following effects with it.
Clenched Fist.The hand strikes one creature or
object within 5 feet of it. Make a melee spell attack for
PART 3ISPELLS
the hand using your game statistics. On a hit, the target
takes 4d8 force damage.
Forceful Hand.The hand attempts to push a creature
within 5 feet of it in a direction you choose. Make
a check with the hand's Strength contested by the
Strength (Athletics) check of the target. lf the target is
Medium or smaller, you have advantage on the check. lf
you succeed, the hand pushes the target up to 5 feet plus
a number of feet equal to fivetimes your spellcasting
ability modifier. The hand moves with the target to
remain within 5 feet of it.
Grasping Hand.The hand attempts to grapple a Huge
or smaller creature within 5 feet of it. Youuse the hand's
Strength score to resolve the grapple. If the target is
Medium or smaller, you have advantage on the check.
While the hand is grappling the target, you can use a
bonus action to have the hand crush it. When you do
so, the target takes bludgeoning damage equal to 2d6 +
your spellcasting ability modifier.
lnterposing  Hand.The hand interposes itself
between you and a creature you choose until you give
the hand a different command. The hand moves to stay
between you and the target, providing you with half
cover against the target. The target can't move through
the hand's space if its Strength score is less than or
equal to the hand's Strength score. If its Strength score
is higher than the hand's Strength score, the target can
move toward you through the hand's space, but that
space is difficuIt terrain for the target.
At Higher Leveis.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 6th levei or higher, the damage from the
clenched fist option increases by 2d8 and the damage
from the grasping hand increases by 2d6 for each slot
leveIabove 5th.
BLADE BARRIER
6th-levei evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Youcreate a vertical wall of whirling, razor-sharp blades
made of magical energy. The wall appears within range
and lasts for the duration. Youcan make a straight wall
up to 100 feet long, 20 feet high, and 5 feet thick, or a
ringed wall up to 60 feet in diameter, 20 feet high, and
5 feet thick. The wall provides three-quarters cover to
creatures behind it, and its space is difficult terrain.
When a creature enters the wall's area for the first
time on a turn or starts its turn there, the creature must
make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save. the
creature takes 6d1Oslashing damage. On a successful
save, the creature takes half as much damage.
BLADE WARD
Abjuratian cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V,S
Duration: 1round
----------------Page (7) Break----------------
Vouextend your hand and trace a sigi! ofwarding in the
air. Unti! the end ofyour next turo. you have resistance
against bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage
dealt byweapon attacks.
BLESS
ls~levelenchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S, M (a sprinkling of holy water)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Voubless up to three creatures ofyour choice within
range. Whenever a target makes an attack roll or a
saving throw before the spell ends, the target can roll
a d4 and add the number rolled to the attack roll or
saving throw.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd leveIor higher, you can target one
additional creature for each slot levei above 1st.
BLIGHT
4th.level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
Necromantic energy washes over a creature ofyour
choice that you can see within range, draining moisture
and vitality from it. The target must make a Constitution
saving throw. The target takes 8d8 necrotic damage on
a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful
one. This spell has no effect on undead or constructs.
lf you target a plant creature or a magical plant, it
makes the saving throw with disadvantage, and the spell
deals maximum damage to it.
lfyou target a nonmagical plant that isn't a creature,
such as a tree or shrub, it doesn't make a saving throw;
it simply withers and dies.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 5th levei or higher, the damage increases by
Id8 for each slot leveIabove 4th.
BLINDING  SMITE
3rd.level evocation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
The next time you hit a creature with a melee weapon
attack during this spell's duration, your weapon flares
with bright light, and the attack deals an extra 3d8
radiant damage to the target. Additionally, the target
must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or be
blinded unti! the spell ends.
Acreature blinded by this spell makes another
Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns.
On a successful save, it is no longer blinded.
BLINDNESS/DEAFNESS
2nd.level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: 1 minute
Voucan blind or deafen a foe. Choose one creature that
you can see within range to make a Constitution saving
throw. If it fails, the target is either blinded or deafened
(your choice) for the duration. At the end of each of its
turos, the target can make a Constitution saving throw.
On a success, the spell ends.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd levei or higher, you can target one
additional creature for each slot levei above 2nd.
BLINK
3rd.level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V,S
Duration: 1 minute
Roll a d20 at the end of each ofyour turos for the
duration of the spell. On a roll of 11or higher, you
vanish from your current plane of existence and appear
in the Ethereal Plane (the spell fails and the casting is
wasted ifyou were already on that plane). At the start of
your next turo, and when the spell ends ifyou are on the
Ethereal Plane, you returo to an unoccupied space of
your choice that you can see within 10feet of the space
you vanished from. lf no unoccupied space is available
within that range, you appear in the nearest unoccupied
space (chosen at random if more than one space is
equally near). Voucan dismiss this spell as an action.
While on the Ethereal Plane, you can see and hear
the plane you originated from, which is cast in shades
of gray, and you can't see anything there more than 60
feet away. Voucan only affect and be affected by other
creatures on the Ethereal Plane. Creatures that aren't
there can't perceive you or interact with you, unless they
have the ability to do sO.
BLUR
2nd./evel illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Your body becomes blurred, shifting and wavering to
all who can see YOU.For the duration, any creature has
disadvantage on attack rolls against you. An attacker
is immune to this effect if it doesn't rely on sight,
as with blindsight, or can see through illusions, as
with truesight.
BRANDING  SMITE
2nd.level evocation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
PART 3ISPELLS219
----------------Page (8) Break----------------
Components: V
Duration: Concenlralion, up lo I minule
The nexl lime you hil a crealure wilh a weapon attack
before lhis spell ends, lhe weapon gleams wilh aslral
radiance as you slrike, The attack deals an exlra 2d6
radianl damage lo lhe largel, which becomes visible if
il's invisibie, and lhe largel sheds dim lighl in a 5.fool
radius and can'l become invisible unlil lhe spell ends.
At Higher Leve/s.When you casl lhis spell using
a spell slol of 3rd levei or higher, lhe exlra damage
increases by ld6 for each sI01levei above 2nd.
BURNING HANDS
1st.leveI evocation
Casting Time: 1 aclion
Range: Self (15-foot cone)
Components: V,S
Duration: Inslanlaneous
As you hold your hands wilh lhumbs louching and
fingers spread, a lhin sheel of flames shools forlh from
your outslretched fingerlips. Each crealure in a 15-fool
cone musl make a Dexlerily saving lhrow. A crealure
lakes 3d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much
damage on a successful one.
The fire ignites any flammable objecls in lhe area lhal
aren'l being woro or carried.
At Higher Leve/s.When you casl lhis spell using a
spell slol of 2nd levei or higher, lhe damage increases by
ld6 for each slol levei above 1st.
CALL LIGHTNING
3rd-IeveI conjuration
Casting Time: 1 aclion
Range: 120 feel
Components: V,S
Duration: Concenlralion, up lo 10 minutes
A slorm cloud appears in the shape of a cylinder lhal
is 10 feet lall wilh a 60.fool radius, cenlered on a poinl
you can see 100 feel direclly above you. The spell fails
ifyou can'l see a poinl in lhe air where lhe slorm cloud
could appear (for example, ifyou are in a room lhal can't
accommodale lhe cloud).
When you casl lhe spell, choose a poinl you can see
wilhin range. AbolI of lightning flashes down from lhe
cloud lOlhal point. Each crealure wilhin 5 feel of lhal
point musl make a Dexlerily saving throw. A crealure
lakes 3d 10 lighlning damage on a failed save, or half
as much damage on a successful one. On each of your
luros unlil lhe spell ends, you can use your aclion lo call
down lighlning in lhis way again, largeting lhe same
poinl or a different one.
lfyou are ouldoors in slormy condilions when you
casl lhis spell, lhe spell gives you control over lhe
exisling slorm inslead of creating a new ooe. Under
such condilions, lhe spell's damage increases by ld 10.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast lhis spell using a
spell si01of 41h or higher levei, lhe damage increases by
IdlO for each si01levei above 3rd.
----------------Page (9) Break----------------
CALM EMOTIONS
2nd.level enehantment
Casting Time: 1action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V.S
Duration: Concentration. up to 1 minute
Vouattempt to suppress strong emotions in a group
of people. Eaeh humanoid in a 20-foot.radius sphere
eentered on a point you choose within range must make
a Charisma saving throw; a creature can choose to
fail this saving throw if it wishes. [f a creature fails its
saving throw. choose one of the following two effects.
Voucan suppress any effect causing a target to be
charmed or frightened. When this spell ends. any
suppressed effeet resumes. provided that its duration
has not expired in the meantime.
Alternatively. you can make a target indifferent about
ereatures ofyour ehoice that it is hostile toward. This
indifference ends if the target is attaeked or harmed by
a spell or if it witnesses any of its friends being harmed.
When the spell ends. the creature becomes hostile
again. unless the DMrules otherwise.
CHAIN LIGHTNING
6th.level evoeation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V.S. M(a bit of fur; a piece of amber.
glass. or a crystal rod; and three silver pins)
Duration: Instantaneous
Voucreate a bolt of lightning that ares toward a target of
your choice that you can see within range. Three bolts
then leap from that target to as many as three other
targets. each of which must be within 30 feet of the tirst
target. Atarget can be a creature or an objeet and ean
be targeted by only one of the bolts.
Atarget must make a Dexterity saving throw. The
target takes lOd8 lightning damage on a failed save. or
half as much damage on a successful one.
At Higher Leve/s.When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th levei or higher. one additional bolt
leaps from the tirst target to another target for each slot
levei above 6th.
CHARM PERSON
lst.level enehantment
Casting Time: 1action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: 1 hour
Vouattempt to eharm a humanoid you can see within
range. It must make a Wisdom saving throw. and does
so with advantage ifyou or your companions are tighting
it. [f it fails the saving throw. it is charmed byyou until
the spell ends or until you or your companions do
anything harmful to it. The charmed ereature regards
you as a friendly acquaintance. When the spell ends. the
creature knows it was eharmed byyou.
At Higher Leveis.When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd levei or higher. you can target one
additional creature for each slot levei above 1sI. The
creatures must be within 30 feet of each other when
you target them.
CHILL TOUCH
Neeromaneyeantrip
Casting Time: 1action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: 1 round
Voucreate a ghostly. skeletal hand in the space of a
creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack
against the creature to assail it with the chill of the
grave. On a hit. the target takes ld8 necrotic damage.
and it can't regain hit points until the start ofyour next
turno Until then, the hand clings to the target.
Ifyou hit an undead target. it also has disadvantage on
attack rolls against you until the end ofyour next turno
This spell's damage increases by ld8 when you reach
5th levei (2d8). 11th leveI(3d8), and 17th levei (4d8).
CHROMATIC ORB
1st.level evoeation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V,S. M (a diamond worth at least 50 gp)
Duration: Instantaneous
Vouhurl a 4-ineh-diameter sphere of energy at a
creature that you can see within range. Vouchoose
acid, cold. tire, lightning, poison, or thunder for the type
of orb you create. and then make a ranged spell attack
against the target. lf the attack hits. the creature takes
3d8 damage of the type you ehose.
At Higher Leveis.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd leveIor higher. the damage inereases by
ld8 for each slot levei above 1st.
CIRCLE OF DEATH
6th-levei neeromaney
Casting Time: 1 aetion
Range: 150 feet
Components: V,S. M(the powder of a erushed black
pearl worth at least 500 gp)
Duration: Instantaneous
Asphere of negative energy ripples out in a 60.foot-
radius sphere from a point within range. Eaeh creature
in that area must make a Constitution saving throw. A
target takes 8d6 necrotie damage on a failed save. or
half as much damage on a successful one.
At Higher Leve/s.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 7th leveIor higher. the damage increases by
2d6 for each slot levei above 6th.
CIRCLE OF POWER
5th-levei abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components: V
Duration: Concentration. up to 10 minutes
PART3SP£LLS221
----------------Page (10) Break----------------
222
Divine energy radiates from you, distorting and
diffusing magical energy within 30 feet of you. Until
the spell ends, the sphere moves with you, centered on
you. For the duration, each friendly creature in the area
(including you) has advantage on saving throws against
spells and other magical effects. Additionally, when
an affected creature succeeds on a saving throw made
against a spell ar magical effect that allows it to make a
saving throw to take only half damage, it instead takes
no damage if it succeeds on the saving throw.
CLAIRVOYANCE
3rd-/evel divination
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 1 mile
Components: V,5, M (a focus worth at least 100
gp, either a jeweled horn for hearing ar a glass
eye for seeing)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Voucreate an invisible sensor within range in a location
familiar to you (a place you have visited ar seen before)
arin an obvious location that is unfamiliar to you (such
as behind a doar, around a corner, ar in a grove of trees).
The senso r remains in place for the duration, and it
can't be attacked ar otherwise interacted with.
When you cast the spell, you choose seeing ar
hearing. Voucan use the chosen sense through the
senso r as ifyou were in its space. As your action, you
can switch between seeing and hearing.
Acreature that can see the sensor (such as a creature
benefiting from seeinvisibilityar truesight) sees a
luminous, intangible orb about the size ofyour fist.
CLONE
8th-levei necromancy
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: Touch
Components: V,5, M (a diamond worth at least 1,000
gp and at least I cubic inch of flesh of the creature
that is to be cloned, which the spell consumes, and a
vessel worth at least 2,000 gp that has a sealable lid
and is large enough to hold a Medium creature, such
as a huge urn, coffin, mud-filled cyst in the ground, ar
crystal container filled with salt water)
Duration: !nstantaneous
This spell grows an inert duplicate of a living creature
as a safeguard against death. This clone forms inside
a sealed vessel and grows to full size and maturity
after 120 days; you can also choose to have the clone
be a younger version of the same creature. lt remains
inert and endures indefinitely, as long as its vessel
remains undisturbed.
At any time after the clone matures, if the original
creature dies, its soul transfers to the clone, provided
that the soul is free and willing to returno The clone is
physically identical to the original and has the same
personality, memories, and abilities, but nane of the
original's equipment. The original creature's physical
remains, if they still exist, become inert and can't
thereafter be restored to life, since the creature's souI
is elsewhere.
PART 3ISPELLS
CLOUD OF DAGGERS
2nd-levei conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,5, M (a sliver of glass)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Vou fillthe air with spinning daggers in a cube 5 feet on
each side, centered on a point you choose within range.
A creature takes 4d4 slashing damage when it enters
the spell's area for the first time on a turn ar starts
its turn there.
At Higher Leveis.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd levei ar higher, the damage increases by
2d4 for each slot levei above 2nd.
CLOUDKILL
5th-levei conjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,5
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Voucreate a 20-foot-radius sphere of poisonous, yellow-
green fog centered on a point you choose within range.
The fog spreads around corners. lt lasts for the duration
ar until strong wind disperses the fog,ending the spell.
lts area is heavily obscured.
When a creature enters the spell's area for the first
time on a turn ar starts its turn there, that creature must
make a Constitution saving throw. The creature takes
5d8 poison damage on a failed save, ar half as much
damage on a successful one, Creatures are affected
even if they hold their breath ar don't need to breathe.
The fog moves 10 feet away from you at the start
of each of your turns, rolling along the surface of the
ground. The vapors, being heavier than air, sink to the
lowest levei of the land, even pouring down openings.
At Higher Leveis.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 6th level ar higher, the damage increases by
ld8 for each slot levei above 5th.
COLOR SPRAY
I st-/eveJ iIIusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 5elf (15-foot cone)
Components: V,5, M (a pinch of powder or sand that is
colored red, yellow, and blue)
Duration: I round
A dazzling array of flashing, colored light springs from
your hand. Roll 6dlO; the total is how many hit points
of creatures this spell can effect. Creatures in a 15-foot
cone originating from you are affected in ascending
arder of their current hit points (ignoring unconscious
creatures and creatures that can't see).
5tarting with the creature that has the lowest current
hit points, each creature affected by this spell is blinded
until the spell ends, 5ubtract each creature's hit points
from the total before moving on to the creature with
the next lowest hit points. A creature's hit points must
be equal to or less than the remaining total for that
creature to be affected,
----------------Page (11) Break----------------
At Higher Leve/s.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd leveI or higher, roll an additional 2d IO
for each slot leveI above 1st.
COMMAND
/st-/evel enchantment
Casting Time:I action
Range:60 feet
Components:V
Duration:1 round
Vou speak a one-word command to a creature you can
see within range. The target must succeed on a Wisdom
saving throw or follow the command on its next turno
The spell has no effect if the target is undead, if it
doesn't understand your language, or if your command
is directly harmful to it.
Some typical commands and their effects follow. Vou
might issue a command other than one described here.
If you do so, the OM determines how the target behaves.
If the target can't follow your command, the spell ends.
Approach.The target moves toward you by the
shortest and most direct route, ending its turn if it
moves within 5 feet of YOU.
Drop.The target drops whatever it is holding and then
ends its turno
F/ee.The target spends its turn moving away from
you by the fastest available means.
Grove/.The target falls prone and then ends its turno
Ha/t.The target doesn't move and takes no actions.
A fiying creature stays aloft, provided that it is able to
do sO. If it must move to stay aloft, it fiies the minimum
distance needed to remain in the air.
At Higher Leve/s.When you east this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd leveI or higher, you can affeet one
additional creature for each slot level above 1st. The
creatures must be within 30 feet of each other when
you target them.
COMMUNE
5th-levei divination (ritual)
Casting Time:1 minute
Range:SeIf
Components:V,S, M (incense and aviaI of holy or
unholy water)
Duration:1 minute
Vou contact your deity or a divine proxy and ask up to
three questions that can be answered with a yes or no.
Vou must ask your questions before the spell ends. Vou
receive a correct answer for each questiono
Oivine beings aren't necessarily omniscient, so you
might receive "unclear" as an answer if a question
pertains to information that lies beyond the deity's
knowledge. In a case where a one-word answer could be
misleading or contrary to the deity's interests, the OM
might offer a short phrase as an answer instead.
Ifyou cast the spell two or more times before finishing
your next long rest, there is a cumulative 25 percent
chance for each casting after the first that you get no
answer. The OM makes this roll in secret.
----------------Page (12) Break----------------
224
COMMUNE WITH NATURE
5th-levei divination (ritual)
Casting Time: I minute
Range: 5elf
Components: V,5
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou briefty become one with nature and gain knowledge
of the surrounding territory. In the outdoors, the spell
gives you knowledge of the land within 3 miles of you.
In caves and other natural underground settings, the
radius is Iimited to 300 feet. The spell doesn't function
where nature has been replaced by construction, such
as in dungeons and towns.
Vou instantly gain knowledge of up to three facts of
your choice about any of the following subjects as they
relate to the area:
terrain and bodies of water
prevalent plants, minerais, animais, or peoples
powerful celestiaIs, fey,fiends, elementals, or undead
influence from other planes of existence
buildings
For example, you could determine the location of
powerful undead in the area, the location of major
sources of safe drinking water, and the location of any
nearby towns.
COMPELLED DUEL
1st-levei enchantment
Casting Time: I bonus act ion
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
Vou attempt to compel a creature into a dueI. One
creature that you can see within range must make a
Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is
drawn to you, compelled by your divine demando For
the duration, it has disadvantage on attack rolls against
creatures other than you, and must make a Wisdom
saving throw each time it attempts to move to a space
that is more than 30 feet away from you; if it succeeds
on this saving throw, this spell doesn't restrict the
target's movement for that turno
The spell ends if you attack any other creature, if you
cast a spell that targets a hostile creature other than the
target, if a creature friendly to you damages the target or
casts a harmful spell on it, or ifyou end your turn more
than 30 feet away from the target.
COMPREHEND  LANGUAGES
1st-levei divination (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 5elf
Components: V,5, M (a pinch of soot and salt)
Duration: 1 hour
For the duration, you understand the literal meaning of
any spoken language that you hear. Vou also understand
any written language that you see, but you must be
touching the surface on which the words are written. It
takes about I minute to read one page of text.
PAR1 3ISPELLS
This speIl doesn't decode secret messages in a text
or a glyph, such as an arcane sigil, that isn't part of a
written language.
COMPULSION
4th-levei enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,5
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
Creatures of your choice that you can see within range
and that can hear you must make a Wisdom saving
throw. A target automatically succeeds on this saving
throw if it can't be charmed. On a failed save, a target
is affected by this spelI. Until the speIl ends, you can
use a bonus action on each of your turns to designate a
direction that is horizontal toYOU.Each affected target
must use as much of its movement as possible to move
in that direction on its next turno It can take its action
before it moves. After moving in this way, it can make
another Wisdom saving to try to end the effect.
A target isn't compeIled to move into an obviously
deadly hazard, such as a fire or pit, but it will provoke
opportunity attacks to move in the designated direction.
CONE OF COLD
5th-levei evocation
Casting Time: I action
Range: 5elf (60-foot cone)
Components: V,5, M (a small crystal or glass cone)
Duration: Instantaneous
A blast of cold air erupts from your hands. Each
creature in a 60-foot cone must make a Constitution
saving throw. A creature takes 8d8 cold damage on a
failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
A creature killed by this spell becomes a frozen statue
until it thaws.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this speIl using a
spell slot of 6th level or higher, the damage increases by
ld8 for each slot leveI above 5th.
CONFUSION
4th-levei enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V,5, M (three nut shells)
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
This spell assaults and twists creatures' minds,
spawning delusions and provoking uncontrolled action.
Each creature in a lO-foot-radius sphere centered on
a point you choose within range must succeed on a
Wisdom saving throw when you cast this spell or be
affected by it.
An affected target can't take reactions and must roIl
adIO at the start of each of its turns to determine its
behavior for that turno
----------------Page (13) Break----------------
dl0   Behavior
1   The creature  uses ali its movement  to move in a
random  direction.  To determine  the direction,  reli
a d8 and assign a direction  to each die face. The
creature  doesn't  take an action this turno
2-6  The creature doesn't  move or take actions this turno
7-8  The creature  uses its action to make a melee attack
against a randomly determined  creature within its
reach. If there is no creature within its reach, the
creature does nothing this turno
9-10  The creature can act and move normally.
At the end of each of its turns, an affected target can
make a Wisdom saving throw. lf it succeeds. this effect
ends for that target.
At Higher LeveIs.When you casl this spell using a
spell slot of 5th levei or higher. the radius of the sphere
increases by 5 reet for each slot levei above 4th.
CONJUREANIMALS
3rd-/evel eonjuratioll
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Concenlration, up lo 1 hour
Vou summon fey spirits lhal take the form of beasts and
appear in unoccupied spaces that you can see within
range. Choose one of the following options for what
appears:
One beast of challenge rating 2 or lower
Two beasts of challenge rating 1 ar lower
Four beasts of challenge rating 1/2 or lower
Eight beasts of ehallenge rating 1/4 ar lower
Each beasl is also considered fey,and it disappears
when it drops to Ohit points or when the spell ends.
The summoned creatures are friendly to you and your
companions. Roll initiative for the summoned creatures
as a group, which has its own turns. They obey any
verbal commands that you issue to them (no action
required by you). Ifyou don't issue any commands to
them, they defend themselves from hostile creatures,
but otherwise take no actions.
The DM has the creatures' statistics.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using
certain higher-Ievel spell slots, you choose one of the
summoning options above, and more creatures appear:
twice as many with a 5th-levei slot, three times as many
with a 7th-levei slot. and four times as many with a
9th-levei si01.
CONJUREBARRAGE
3rd-/evel conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Sei f (60-foot cone)
Components: V,S, M (one piece of ammunition or a
thrown weapon)
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou throw a nonmagical weapon or fire a piece of
nonmagicaI ammunition into the air to create a cone
of identical weapons that shoot forward and then
disappear. Each creature in a 60.foot cone must succeed
on a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 3d8
damage on a failed save, ar half as much damage on a
successful one. The damage type is the same as that of
the weapon or ammunition used as a component.
CONJURECELESTIAL
7th-levei conjuration
Casting Time: I minute
Range: 90 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Vou summon a celestial of challenge rating 4 or lower,
which appears in an unoccupied space that you can see
within range. The celestial disappears when it drops to
Ohit points or when the spell ends.
The celestial is friendly to you and your companions
for the duration. Roll initiative for the celestial, which
has its own turns. It obeys any verbal commands that
you issue to it (no action required by you), as long as
they don't violate its alignment. Ifyou don't issue any
commands to the celestial, it defends itself from hostile
creatures but otherwise takes no actions.
The DM has the celestial's statistics.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast [his spell using a
9th-levei spell slot, you summon a celestial of challenge
rating 5 ar lower.
CONJUREELEMENTAL
5th-levei cOlljuration
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 90 feet
Components: V,S, M (burning incense for air, soft day
for earth, sulfur and phosphorus for fire, or water and
sand for water)
Duration: Concentration, up to I hour
Vou call forth an elemental servant. Choose an area of air,
earth, !ire, or water that fills a lO-foot cube within range.
An elemental of challenge rating 5 or lower appropriate
to the area you chose appears in an unoccupied space
within 10 feet of it. For example, a !ire elemental
emerges from a bonfire, and an earth elemental rises
up fram the ground. The elemental disappears when it
drops to Ohit points or when the spell ends.
The elemental is friendly to you and your companions
for the duration. Roll initiative for the elemental, which
has its own turns. lt obeys any verbal commands that
you issue to it (no action required byyou). If you don't
issue any commands to the elemental, it defends itself
from hostile creatures but otherwise takes no actions.
Ifyour concentration is broken, the elemental doesn't
disappear. Instead, you lose control of the elemental,
il becomes hostile toward you and your companions,
and it might attack. An uncontrolled elemental can't
be dismissed by you, and it disappears I hour after
you summoned it.
The DM has the elemental's statistics.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th levei or higher, the challenge rating
increases by I for each slot levei above 5th.
PART 3ISPELLS
----------------Page (14) Break----------------
226
CONJUREFEY
6th-levei conjuration
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 90 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Vou summon a fey creatllre of challenge rating 6 or
lower, or a fey spirit that takes the form of a beast of
challenge rating 6 or lower. lt appears in an unoccupied
space that you can see within range, The fey creature
disappears when it drops toOhit points or when
the spell ends,
The fey creature is friendly to you and your
companions for the duration. Roll initiative for the
creature, which has its own turns. lt obeys any verhal
commands that you isslle to it (no action required
by you), as long as they don't violate its alignment. If
you don't issue any commands to the fey creature, it
defends itselffrom hostile creatures but otherwise
takes no actions.
Ifyour concentration is broken, the fey creature
doesn't disappear. Instead, you lose contro! of the
fey creature, it hecomes hostile toward you and your
companions, and it might attack. An uncontrolled fey
creature can't be dismissed hy you. and it disappears 1
hour after you summoned it.
The DM has the fey creature's statistics.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th leveI or higher, the challenge rating
increases by 1 for each slot levei above 6th.
CONJUREMINORELEMENTALS
4th.level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 90 feet
Components: V.S
Duration: Concentration, up to I hour
Vou summon elementals that appear in IInoccupied
spaces that you can see within range. Vou choose one
the following options for what appears:
One elemental of challenge rating 2 or lower
Two elementals of challenge rating 1 or lower
Four elementals of challenge rating 1/2 or lower
Eight elementals of challenge rating 1/4 or lower.
An elemental summoned by this spell disappears when
it drops toOhit points or when the spell ends.
The summoned creatures are friendly to you and your
companions. Roll initiative for the summoned creatures
as a group. which has its own turns. They obey any
verbal commands that you issue to them (no action
required by you). Ifyou don't issue any commands to
them, they defend themselves from hostile creatures,
hut otherwise take no actions.The DM has the creatures' statistics.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using
certain higher.level spell slots, you choose one of the
summoning options above, and more creatures appear:
twice as many with a 6th-levei slot and three times as
many with an 8th-levei slot.
PA RT 3ISPEl.LS
CONJUREVOLLEY
5th-levei conjumtion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V,S, M (one piece of ammunition or one
thrown weapon)
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou fire a piece of nonmagical ammunition fram a
ranged weapon or throw a nonmagical weapon into
the air and choose a point within range. Hundreds of
duplicates of the ammunition or weapon fali in a volley
from above and then disappear. Each creature in a
40-foot-radius. 20.foot.high cylinder centered on that
point must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature
takes 8d8 damage on a failed save. or half as much
damage on a successful one. The damage type is the
same as that of the ammunition or weapon.
CONJUREWOODLANDBEINGS
4th.level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V.S, M (one holly berry per
creature summoned)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Vou summon fey creatures that appear in unoccupied
spaces that you can see within range, Choose one of the
following options for what appears:
One fey creature of challenge rating 2 or lower
Two fey creatures of challenge rating 1 or lower
Four fey creatures of challenge rating 1/2 or lower
Eight fey creatures of challenge rating 1/4 or lower
A summoned creature disappears when it drops toOhit
points or when the spell ends.
The summoned creatures are friend!y to you and your
companions. Roll initiative for the summoned creatures
as a group. which have their own turns. They obey any
verhal commands that you issue to them (no action
required hy you). Ifyou don't issue any commands to
them, they elefend themselves from hostile creatures,
but otherwise take no actions.
The DM has the creatures' statistics.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using
certain higher.level spell slots. you choose one of the
summoning options above, anel more creatures appear:
twice as many with a 6th.level slot and three times as
many with an 8th.level slot.
CONTACTOTHERPLANE
5th.level divination (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: 1 minute
Vou mentally contact a demigod, the spirit of a long.dead
sage, or some other mysterious entity fram another
plane. Contacting this extraplanar intelligence can
strain or even break your mind. When you cast this
spell, make a DC 15 lntelligence saving thraw. On a
----------------Page (15) Break----------------
failure, you take 6d6 psychic damage and are insane
until you finish a long rest. While insane, you can't take
actions, can't understand what other creatures say, can't
read, and speak only in gibberish, Agreater restoration
spell cast on you ends this effect.
On a successful save, you can ask the entity up to five
questions, Vou must ask your questions before the spell
ends, The DM answers each question with one word,
such asuyes," "no," "maybe," "never/' "irrelevant." ar
"unclear" (if the entity doesn't know the answer to the
question), ]f a one-word answer would be misleading,
the DM might instead offer a short phrase as an answer,
CONTAGION
5th-leveI necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Component: V,S
Duration: 7 days
Your touch inflicts disease. Make a melee spell atlack
against a creature within your reach. On a hit, you aftlict
the creature with a disease of your choice from any of
the ones described below.
At the end of each of the target's turns, it must make
a Constitution saving throw. After failing three of
these saving throws, the disease's effects last for the
duration, and the creature stops making these saves.
After succeeding on three of these saving throws, the
creature recovers from the disease, and the spell ends.
Since this spell induces a natural disease in its
target, any effect that removes a disease or otherwise
ameliorates a disease's effects apply to it.
Blinding  Sickness.Pain grips the creature's mind,
and its eyes turn milky white. The creature has
disadvantage on Wisdom checks and Wisdom saving
throws and is blinded,
FiJth Fever.A raging fever sweeps through the
creature's body. The creature has disadvantage on
Strength checks, Strength saving throws. and attack
rolls that use Strength.
Flesh Rot.The creature's flesh decays. The creature
has disadvantage on Charisma checks and vulnerability
to ali damage.
Mindfire.The creature's mind becomes feverish. The
creature has disadvantage on Intelligcnce checks and
Intelligence saving throws, and the creature behaves as
if under the effects of theconfusionspell during combat.
Seizure.The creature is ovcrcomc with shaking.
The creature has disadvantage on Dexterity checks,
Dcxterity saving throws, and attack rolls that
use Dexterity.
Slimy Doom.The creaturc begins to bleed
uncontrollably. The creature has disadvantagc on
Constitution checks and Constitution saving throws.
In addition, whenever the creature takcs damage, it is
stunned until the end of its next turno
CONTINGENCY
6th-leveI evocation
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Self
Components: V,S, M (a statuetle of yourself carved
from ivory and decorated with gems worth at
least 1,500 gp)
Duration: 10 days
Choose a spell of 5th levei or lower that you can cast, that
has a casting time of 1 action, and that can targetYOU.
Vou cast that spell-called the contingent spell-as part
of castingcontingency,expending spell slots for both, but
the contingent spell doesn't come into effect. Instead, it
takes effect when a certain circumstance occurs. Vou
describe that circumstance when you cast the two spells.
For example, acontingencycast withwater breathing
might stipulate thatwater breathingcomes into effect
when you are engulfed in water or a similar liquid.
The contingent spell takes effect immediately after thc
circumstance is met for the first time, whether or not you
want it to, and thencontingencyends.
The contingent spell takes effect only on you, even
if it can normally target others. Vou can use only one
contingencyspell at a time. Ifyou cast this spell again,
the effect of anothercontingencyspell on you ends. Also,
contingencyends on you if its material component is
ever not on your person.
CONTINUALFLAME
2nd./evel evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M (ruby dust worth 50 gp, which the
spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
A flame, equivalent in brightness to a torch, springs
forth from an object that you touch. The cffect looks like
a regular flame, hut it creates no heat and doesn't use
oxygen. AcontinuaI liamecan be covered or hidden but
not smothered or quenched.
CONTROLWATER
4th-leveI transnllltation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 300 fect
Components: V,S, M (a drop ofwater and a
pinch of dust)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Until the spell cnds, you control any frcestanding water
inside an arca you choose that is a cube up to 100 feet
on a side. Vou can choose from any of the following
effccts when you cast this spcll. As an action on your
turn, you can rcpeat the same effect or choosc a
different one.
Flood.Vou cause the water Icvelof ali standing water in
the area to rise by as much as 20 feet. If the area includes
a shore, the flooding water spills over onto dry land.
Ifyou choose an area in a large body of water. you
instead create a 20-foot tall wave that travels from one
side of the area to the other and then crashes down. Any
Huge or smaller vehiclcs in the wave's path are carried
with it lo the other side. Any Huge or smaller vehicles
struck by the wave have a 25 percent chance of capsizing.
The water levei remains elevated until the spell ends
or you choose a different effect. Ifthis effect produced
PART 3  SPEI L~227
----------------Page (16) Break----------------
228
.
---
a wave, the wave repeats on the start of your next turn
while the fiood effect lasts.
Part Water.Vou cause water in the area to move
aparl and creale a lrench. The trench extends across
the spell's area, and the separaled waler forms a wall lo
either side. The lrench remains unlil lhe spell ends or
you choose a different effect. The waler lhen slowly fills
in lhe trench over lhe course of the next round until the
normal water levei is restored.
Redirect FIow.Vou cause fiowing water in the area
to move in a direction you choose, even if the water has
to fiow over obstacles, up walls, or in other unlikely
directions. The water in the area moves as you direct
it, but once it moves beyond the spell's area, it resumes
its fiow based on the terrain conditions. The water
continues to move in the direction you chose until the
spell ends or you choose a different effect.
WhirIpooI.This effect requires a body of water
at least 50 feet square and 25 feet deep. Vou cause
a whirlpool to form in the center of the area. The
whirlpool forms a vortex that is 5 feet wide at the
base, up to 50 feet wide ai the top, and 25 feel tall. Any
creature or object in the water and within 25 feet of the
vortex is pulled 10 feet toward it. A creature can swim
away from the vortex by making a Strength (Athletics)
check against your spell save DC.
When a creature enters the vortex for the first time on
a turn or starts its turn there, it must make a Strength
saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 2d8
bludgeoning damage and is caught in the vortex until
the spell ends. On a successful save, the creature takes
half damage, and isn't caught in the vortex. A crealure
caught in the vortex can use its action to try to swim
away from the vortex as described above, but has
disadvanlage on lhe Strength (Athletics) check to do so.
The first time each turn that an object enters the
vortex, the object takes 2d8 bludgeoning damage; this
damage occurs each round it remains in the vortex.
CONTROL WEATHER
8th.level transmutation
Casting Time: lO minutes
Range: Self (5-mile radius)
Components: V,S, M (burning incense and bits of earth
and wood mixed in water)
Duration: Concentration, up to 8 hours
Vou take control of the weather within 5 miles of you
for the duration. Vou must be outdoors to cast this spell.
Moving to a place where you don't have a clear path to
the sky ends the spell early.
When you cast the spell, you change the current
weather conditions, which are determined by the DM
based on the climate and season. Vou can change
precipitation, temperature, and wind. lt takes Id4 x 10
minutes for the new conditions lOtake effect. Once they
do so. you can change the conditions again. When the
spell ends, the weather gradually returns to normal.
When you change the weather conditions, find a
current condition on the following tables and change its
stage by one, up or down. When changing the wind, you
can change its direction.
PART 3ISPELLS
PRECIPITATION
Stage  Condition
1   Clear
2   Light clouds
3   Overcast or ground fog
4   Rain, hail, or snow
5   Torrential rain, driving hail, or blizzard
TEMPERATUREWIND
Stage  ConditionStage  Condition
1Unbearable  heat1Calm
2Hot2Moderate wind
3Warm3Strong wind
4Cool4Gale
5Cold5Storm
6Arctic cold
CORDON OF ARROWS
2nd-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: I action
Range: 5 feet
Components: V,S, M (four or more arrows or bolts)
Duration: 8 hours
Vou plant four pieces of nonmagical ammunition-
arrows or crossbow bolts-in the ground within range
and lay magic upon them to protect an area. Until the
spell ends, whenever a creature other than you comes
within 30 feet of the ammunition for the first time on a
turn or ends its turn there, one piece of ammunition fiies
up to strike it. The creature must succeed on a Dexterity
saving throw or take Id6 piercing damage. The piece of
ammunition is then destroyed. The spell ends when no
ammunition remains.
When you cast this spell, you can designate any
creatures you choose, and the spell ignores them.
At Hil1her LeveIs.When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd levei or higher, the amount of
ammunition that can be affected increases by two for
each slot levei above 2nd.
COUNTERSPELL
3rd.level abjuration
Casting Time: I reaction, which you take when you see
a creature within 60 feet of you casting a spell
Range: 60 feet
Components: S
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou altempt to interrupt a creature in the process of
casting a spell. lf the creature is casting a spell of 3rd
levei or lower, its spell fails and has no effect. lf it is
casting a spell of 4th leveI or higher, make an ability
check using your spellcasting ability. The DC equals 10
+the spell's leveI. On a success, the creature's spell fails
and has no effect.
At Hil1her LeveIs.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th levei or higher, the interrupted spell has
no effect if its levei is less than or equal to the levei of the
spell slot you used.
----------------Page (17) Break----------------
CREATEFOODANDWATER
3rd-Ievel conjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou create 45 pounds of food and 30 gallons of water
on the ground or in containers within range, enough
to sustain up to tifteen humanoids or tive steeds for
24 hours. The food is bland but nourishing, and spoils
if uneaten after 24 hours. The water is clean and
doesn't go bad.
24 hours, you must cast this spell on the creature
before the current 24-hour period ends. This use
of the spell reasserts your control over up to three
creatures you have animated with this spell, rather than
animating new ones.
At Higher Leve/s.When you cast this spell using a
7th-leveI spell slot, you can animate or reassert control
over four ghouls. When you cast this spellusing an
8th-leveI spell slot, you can animate or reassert control
over tive ghouls or two ghasts or wights. When you cast
this spell using a 9th-leveI spell slot, you can animate or
reassert control over six ghouls, three ghasts or wights,
or two mummies.
Using any material created by this spell as another
spell's material component causes that spell to fail.
At Higher Leve/s.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 6th levei or higher, the cube increases by 5
feet for each slot leveI above 5th.
CROWNOFMADNESS
2nd-leveI enchantment
Casting Time: I action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
One humanoid of your choice that you can see within
range must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or
become charmed by you for the duration. While
the target is charmed in this way, a twisted crown
ofjagged iron appears on its head, and a madness
glows in its eyes.
The charmed target must use its action before moving
on each of its turns to make a melee attack against a
creature other than itself that you mentally choose.
CREATION
5th-levei il/usion
Casting Time: I minute
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S, M (a tiny piece of matter of the same
type of the item you plan to create)
Duration: Special
Vou pull wisps of shadow material from the Shadowfell
to create a nonliving object of vegetable matter within
range: 50ft goods. rope, wood, or something similar. Vou
can also use this spell to create mineral objects such as
stone, crystal, or metal. The object created must be no
larger than a 5-foot cube, and the object must be of a
form and material that you have seen before.
The duration depends on the object"s material. If
the object is composed of multiple materiaIs, use the
shortest duration.
CREATEORDESTROYWATER
1st-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: I action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S, M (a drop of water if creating water
or a few grains of sand if destroying it)
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou either create or destroy water.
Create Water.Vou create up to 10 gallons of clean
water within range in an open container. Alternatively,
the water falls as rain in a 30-foot cube within range,
extinguishing exposed fiames in the area.
Destroy Water.Vou destroy up to 10 gallons of water
in an open container within range. Alternatively, you
destroy fog in a 30-foot cube within range.
At Higher Leve/s.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd levei or higher, you create or destroy
10 additional gallons of water, or the size of the cube
increases by 5 feet, for each slot leveI above 1st.
CREATEUNDEAD
6th-leveI necromancy
Casting Time: I minute
Range: 10 feet
Components: V,S, M (one clay pot tilled with grave dirt.
one clay pot tilled with brackish water, and one 150 gp
black onyx stone for each corpse)
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou can cast this spell only at nighl. Choose up to three
corpses of Medium or Small humanoids within range.
Each corpse becomes a ghoul under your control. (The
DM has game statistics for these creatures.)
As a bonus action on each of your turns, you can
mentally command any creature you animated with
this spell ifthe creature is within 120 feet ofyou (ifyou
control multiple creatures, you can command any or ali
of them at the same time, issuing the same command to
each one). Vou decide what action the creature will take
and where it will move during its next turn, or you can
issue a general command, such as to guard a particular
chamber or corridor. Ifyou issue no commands, the
creature only defends itself against hostile creatures.
Once given an order, the creature continues to follow it
until its task is complete.
The creaturc is under your control for 24 hours,
after which it stops obeying any command you have
given il. To maintain control of the creature for another
Material
Vegetable matter
Stone ar crystal
Precious metais
Gems
Adamantine  ar mithral
Duration
1 day
12 hours
1 hourla
minutes
1minute
PART 3  SPELLS229
----------------Page (18) Break----------------
230
The target can act normally on its turn ifyou choose no
creature or if none are within its reach.
On your subsequent turns, you must use your action to
maintain control over the target, or the spell ends. AIso,
the target can make a Wisdom saving throw at the end
of each of its turns. On a success. the spell ends.
CRUSADER'S MANTLE
3rd-Ievel evocation
Casting Time: I action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
Holy power radiates from you in an aura with a 30-foot
radius, awakening boldness in friendly creatures. Until
the spell ends, the aura moves with you, centered on
you. While in the aura, each nonhostile creature in the
aura (including you) deals an extra Id4 radiant damage
when it hits with a weapon attack.
CURE WOUNDS
1st-levei evocation
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
A creature you touch regains a number of hit points
equal to Id8+your spellcasting ability modifier. This
spell has no effect on undead or constructs.
At Higher Leveis.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd levei or higher, the healing increases by
Id8 for each slot leveI above IsI.
DANCING LIGHTS
Evocation cantrip
Casting Time: I action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S, M (a bit of phosphorus or wychwood,
or a glowworm)
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
Vou create up to four torch-sized lights within range,
making them appear as torches, lanterns, or glowing
orbs that hover in the air for the duration. Vou can
also combine the four Iights into one glowing vaguely
humanoid form of Medium size. Whichever form you
choose, each light sheds dim light in a lO-foot radius.
As a bonus action on your turn, you can move the
lights up to 60 feet to a new spot within range. A Iight
must be within 20 feet of another light created by this
spell, and a light winks out if it exceeds the spell's range.
DARKNESS
2nd-levei evocation
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,M (bat fur and a drop of pitch or
piece of coai)
Duration: Concentration, up to lO minutes
Magical darkness spreads from a point you choose
within range to fill a IS-foot-radius sphere for the
PART 3ISPELLS
duration. The darkness spreads around corners.
A creature with darkvision can't see through this
darkness, and nonmagical light can't illuminate il.
If the point you choose is on an object you are holding
or one that isn't being worn or carried, the darkness
emanates from the object and moves with il. Completely
covering the source of the darkness with an opaque
object, such as a bowl or a heIm, blocks the darkness.
]f any of this spell's area overlaps with an area of light
created by a spell of 2nd levei or lower, the spell that
created the light is dispelled.
DARKVISION
2nd-levei transmutation
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V.S, M (either a pinch of dried
carrot or an agate)
Duration: 8 hours
Vou touch a willing creature to grant it the ability to
see in the dark. For the duration. that creature has
darkvision out to a range of 60 feel.
DAYLIGHT
3rd-Ievel evocation
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: I hour
A 60-foot-radius sphere of light spreads out from a point
you choose within range. The sphere is bright light and
sheds dim light for an additional 60 feel.
]f you chose a point on an object you are holding or
one that isn't being worn or carried, the light shines
from the object and moves with it. Completely covering
the affected object with an opaque object, such as a bowl
or a helm, blocks the light.
If any of this spell's area overlaps with an area of
darkness created by a spell of 3rd levei or lower, the
spell that created the darkness is dispelled.
DEATH WARD
4th-levei abjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S
Duration: 8 hours
Vou touch a creature and grant it a measure of
protection from death.
The first time the target would drop to Ohit points as a
result of taking damage, the target instead drops to I hit
point, and the spell ends.
If the spell is still in effect when the target is subjected
to an effect lhat would kill it instantaneously without
dealing damage, that effect is instead negated against
the target, and the spell ends.
DELAYED BLAST FIREBALL
7th-levei evocation
Casting Time: I action
----------------Page (19) Break----------------
Range: ISO feel
Components: V,S, M (a liny ball of bal
guano and sulfur)
Duralion: Concenlralion, up lOI minule
A beam of yellow lighl lIashes from your poinling finger,
then condenses lo linger aI a chosen poinl wilhin range
as a glowing bead for the duralion. When lhe spell
ends, either beca use your concentration is broken OI'
because you decide to end it, lhe bead blossoms with a
low roar inlo an explosion of liame Ihal spreads around
corners. Each crealure in a 20.fool.radius sphere
centered on that point must make a Dexterity saving
throw. A crealure lakes fire damage equal to lhe total
accumulated damage on a failed save, OI'half as much
damage on a successful one.
The spell's base damage is 12d6. If at the end of
your lurn lhe bead has not yet detonated, lhe damage
increases by Id6.
]f the glowing bead is touched before the interval
has expired, lhe creature touching it must make a
Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the spell ends
immediately, causing the bead 10erupt in liame. On a
successful save, the crealure can throw the bead up to
40 fee!. When it strikes a creature01'a solid objecl, the
spell ends, and lhe bead explodes.
The fire damages objecls in the area and ignites
lIammable objecls that aren'l being worn OI'carried.
At Higher Leve/s.When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 8th leveI OI'higher, lhe base damage
increases by Id6 for each sI01leveI above 71h.
DEMIPLANE
8th./evel conjuratian
Casling Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
Components: S
Duralion: I hour
Vou create a shadowy door on a lIat solid surface that
you can see within range. The door is large enough to
allow Medium creatures lo pass through unhindered.
When opened, lhe door leads lo a demiplane Ihat
appears to be an empty room 30 feet in each dimension,
made of wood01'stone. When the spell ends, the door
disappears, and any crealures01'objects inside the
demiplane remain trapped Ihere, as lhe door also
disappears from the olheI' side.
Each time you casl this spell, you can create a new
demiplane, OI'have the shadowy doar connect to a
demiplane you created with a previous casting of this
spell. Additionally, if you know the nature and contents
of a demiplane created bya casting of this spell by
another creature, you can have lhe shadowy door
connecl to its demiplane inslead.
DESTRUCTIVE WAVE
5thJevelevocation
Casling Time: I action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Componenls: V
Duration: Inslantaneous
Vou slrike the ground, creating a burst of divine
energy that ripples oulward ftomyou. Each creature
you choose within 30 feet of you must succeed on a
Conslitution saving throw OI'take 5d6 thunder damage,
as well as 5d6 radiant OI'necrotic damage (your choice),
and be knocked prone. A creature that succeeds on
its saving throw takes half as much damage and isn't
knocked prone.
DETECT EVIL ANOGooo
1st-IeveI divination
Casting Time: I aclion
Range:Se]f
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
For the duralion, you know if Ihere is an aberration,
celestial, elemenlal, fey,fiend, OI'undead within 30
feet of you, as well as where lhe crealure is located.
Similarly, you know if there is a place01'object within
30 feet of you Ihat has been magically consecrated
OI'desecrated.
The spell can penetrate most barriers, but it is blocked
by I fool of slone, I inch of common metal, a thin sheel
of lead, OI'3 feel of wood OI'dir!.
DETECT MAGIC
1st-leveI divination (ritual)
Casting Time: I action
Range: Self
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
For the duration, you sense the presence of magic
wilhin 30 feet of you. ]f you sense magic in Ihis way, you
can use your action to see a faint aura around any visible
creature OI'object in the area that bears magic, and you
learn its school of magic. if any.
The spell can penetrate most barriers, but it is blocked
by I foot of slone, I inch of common metal, a Ihin sheel
of lead, OI'3 feet of wood OI'dir!.
DETECT POISON ANO DISEASE
1st-leveI divination (ritual)
Casting Time: I action
Range: Self
Components: V,S, M (a yew leaf)
Duration: Concenlration, up to 10 minutes
For the duration, you can sense the presence and
location of poisons, poisonous creatures, and diseases
within 30 feel of you. Vou also identify the kind of
poison, poisonous creature, ar disease in each case.
The spell can penelrate most barriers, but it is blocked
by I foot of slone, I inch of common metal, a thin sheet
of lead, OI'3 feet of wood OI'dir!.
DETECT THOUGHTS
2nd.level divination
Casting Time: I action
Range: Self
Components: V,S, M (a copper piece)
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
PART3SPELLS231
----------------Page (20) Break----------------

----------------Page (21) Break----------------
For the duration, you can read the thoughts of certain
creatures, When you cast the spell and as your action on
each turn until the spell ends, you can focus your mind
on any one creature that you can see within 30 feet of
you, If the creature you choose has an Intelligence of
3 or lower or doesn't speak any language, the crealure
is unaffected.
Vou initially learn the surface thoughts of the
creature-what  is most on its mind in that moment. As
an action, you can either shift your atlention lo another
creature's thoughts or atlempt to probe deeper into the
same creature's mind. ]f you probe deeper, the target
must make a Wisdom saving throw. If it fails, you gain
insight into its reasoning (if any), its emotional state,
and something that looms large in ils mind (such as
something it worries over, loves, or hates). ]f it succeeds,
the spell ends. Either way, the target knows that you are
probing into its mind, and unless you shift your atlention
to another creature's thoughts, the creature can use
its action on its turn to make an lntelligence check
contested by your Intelligence check; if it succeeds,
the spell ends.
Questions verbally directed at the target creature
naturally shape the course of its thoughts, so this spell
is particularly effective as part of an interrogation.
Vou can also use this spell to detect the presence of
thinking creatures you can't see. When you cast the
spell or as your action during the duration, you can
search for thoughts within 30 feet of YOU.The spell can
penetrate barriers, but 2 feet of rock, 2 inches of any
metal other than lead, or a thin sheet of lead blocks you.
Vou can't detect a creature with an lntelligence of 3 or
lower or one that doesn't speak any language.
Once you detecI the presence of a creature in this way,
you can read its lhoughts for the rest of the duration as
described above, even if you can't see it, but it must still
be within range.
DIMENSION DOOR
4th-levei conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 500 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou teleport yourself from your current location lo any
other spot within range. Vou arrive at exactly the spot
desired. It can be a place you can see, one you can
visualize, or one you can describe by stating distance
and direclion, such as "200 feet straight downward" or
"upward to the northwest at a 45-degree angle, 300 feet."
Vou can bring along objects as long as their weight
doesn't exceed what you can carry. Vou can also bring
one willing creature of your size or smaller who is
carrying gear up to its carrying capacity. The creature
must be within 5 feet of you when you cast this spell.
Ifyou would arrive in a place already occupied byan
object or a creature, you and any creature traveling with
you each take 4d6 force damage, and the spell fails to
teleport you.
DISGUISE SELF
1st-levei iIIusion,
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V,S
Duration: 1 hour
Vou make yourself-including  your clothing, armor,
weapons, and other belongings on your person-Iook
different until the spell ends ar until you use your action
to dismiss it. Vou can seem 1 foot shorter or taller and
can appear thin, fat, or in belween. Vou can't change
your body type, so you must adopt a form that has the
same basic arrangement of limbs. Otherwise, the extent
of the illusion is up to you.
The changes wrought by this spell fail to hold up lo
physical inspection. For example, if you use this spell
to add a hat to your oUlfit,objects pass through the hat,
and anyone who touches it would feel nothing or would
feel your head and hair. Ifyou use this spell to appear
thinner than you are, lhe hand of someone who reaches
out lOtouch you would bump into you while it was
seemingly still in midair.
To discern that you are disguised, a creature can use
its action to inspect your appearance and must succeed
on an Intelligence (Investigation) check against your
spell save De.
DISINTEGRATE
6th-levei transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S, M (a lodestone and a pinch of dust)
Duration: lnstantaneous
A thin green ray springs from your pointing finger to a
target that you can see within range. The target can be a
creature, an objecl, or a creation of magical force, such
as the wall created bywallofforce.
A creature targeted by this spell must make a
Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes
IOd6+40 force damage. If lhis damage reduces the
target to Ohit points, it is disintegrated.
A disintegrated creature and everything il is wearing
and carrying, except magic ilems, are reduced to a pile
of fine gray dust. The creature can be restored to life
only by means of atrue resurrectionor awishspell.
This spell automatically disintegrates a Large or
smaller nonmagical object or a creation of magical
force. ]f the target is a Huge or larger object or creation
of force, this spell disintegrates a lO-foot-cube portion of
it. A magic item is unaffecled by this spell.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 7th leveI or higher, the damage increases by
3d6 for each slot levei above 6th.
DISPEL EVIL AND GOOD
5th-levei abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: SeI f
PARr3SPELL
----------------Page (22) Break----------------
234
Components: V,S, M (holy water or powdered
silver and iron)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Shimmering energy surrounds and protects you from
fey, undead, and creatures originating from beyond the
Material Plane. For the duration, celestiais, elementals,
fey, fiends, and undead have disadvantage on attack
rolls against you.
Vou can end the spell early by using either of the
following special functions.
Break Enchantment.As your action, you touch a
creature you can reach that is charmed, frightened, or
possessed bya celestial, an elemental, a fey,a fiend,
or an undead. The creature you touch is no longer
charmed, frightened, or possessed by such creatures.
DismissaI.As your action, make a melee spell attack
against a celestial, an elemental, a fey,a fiend, or an
undead you can reach. On a hit, you attempt to drive
the creature back to its home plane. The creature must
succeed on a Charisma saving throw or be sent back to
its home plane (if it isn't there already). If they aren't on
their home plane, undead are sent to the Shadowfell,
and fey are sent to the Feywild.
DISPEL MAGIe
3rd-Ievel abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
Choose one creature, object, or magical effect within
range. Any spell of 3rd levei or lower on the target ends.
For each spell of 4th levei or higher on the target. make
an ability check using your spellcasting ability. The
DC equals 10+the spell's leveI. On a successful check,
the spell ends.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th level or higher, you automatically end
the effec!s of a spell on the target if the spell's levei is
equal to or less than the levei of the spell slot you used.
DISSONANT WHISPERS
1st-levei enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou whisper a discordam melody that only one creature
of your choice within range can hear, wracking it with
terrible pain. The target must make a Wisdom saving
throw. On a failed save, it takes 3d6 psychic damage and
must immediately use its reaction, if available, to move
as far as its speed allows away from you. The creature
doesn'tInoveinto obviously  dangerous  ground,  such
as a fire or a pit. On a successful save, the target takes
half as much damage and doesn't have to move away. A
deafened creature automatically succeeds on the save.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd level or higher. the damage increases by
Id6 for each slot levei above 1st.
P"Rf 3  SPELLS
DIVINATION
4th-levei divination (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V,S, M (incense and a sacrifieial offering
appropriate to your religion, together worth at least 25
gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
Your magic and an offering put you in contact with
a god or a god's servants. Vou ask a single question
concerning a speeific goal, event, or activity to occur
within 7 days. The DM offers a truthful reply. The reply
might be a short phrase, a cryptic rhyme, or an omen.
The spell doesn't take into account any possible
circumstances that might change the outcome, such
as the casting of additional spells or the loss or gain
of a companion.
Ifyou cast the spell two or more times before finishing
your next long rest, there is a cumulative 25 percent
chance for each casting after the first that you get a
random reading. The DM makes this roll in secret.
DIVINE FAVOR
1st-Ievel evocarion
Casting Time: I bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Your prayer empowers you with divine radiance. Until
the spell ends, your weapon attacks deal an extra 1d4
radiant damage on a hit.
DIVINE WORD
7th-levei evocation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 30 fee!
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You utter a divine word, imbued with the power thar
shaped the world at the dawn of ereation. Choose any
number of creatures you can see within range. Each
creature that can hear you must make a Charisma
saving throw. On a failed save, a creature suffers an
effect based on its current hit points:
50 hit points or fewer: deafened for 1 minute
40 hit points or fewer: deafened and blinded for 10
minutes
30 hit points ar fewer: blinded, deafened, and stunned
for 1 hour
20 hit points or fewer: killed instantly
Regardless of its current hit points, a celestial, an
elemental, a fey.or a fiend that fails its save is forced
back to its plane of origin (if it isn't there already) and
can't return to your current plane for 24 hours byany
means short of awishspell.
DOMINATE BEAST
4th-levei enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
----------------Page (23) Break----------------
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,5
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
Vou attempt to beguile a beast that you can see within
range. lt must succeed on a Wisdom saving thraw or be
charmed by you for the duration. ]fyou or creatures that
are friendly to you are fighting it, it has advantage on the
saving thraw.
While the beast is charmed, you have a telepathic link
with it as long as the two of you are on the same plane
of existence. Vou can use this telepathic link to issue
commands to the creature while you are conscious (no
action required), which it does its best to obey. Vou can
specifya simple and general course of action, such as
"Attack that creature." "Run over there," or "Fetch that
objec!." If the creature completes the order and doesn't
receive further direction from you, it defends and
preserves itself to the best of its ability.
Vou can use your action to take total and precise
contraI of the targe!. Until the end of your next turn, the
creature takes only the actions you choose, and doesn't
do anything that you don't allow it to do. During this
time, you can also cause the creature to use a reaction,
but this requires you to use your own reaction as well.
Each time the target takes damage, it makes a new
Wisdom saving thraw against the spell. ]f the saving
throw succeeds, the spell ends.
At Higher Leve/s.When you cast this spell with a
5th.level spell slot, the duration is concentration, up
to 10 minutes. When you use a 6th.level spell slot,
the duration is concentration, up to I hour. When you
use a spell slot of 7th levei or higher, the duration is
concentration, up to 8 hours.
DOMINATE MONSTER
8th.level enchantment
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,5
Duration: Concentration, up to I hour
Vou attempt to beguile a creature that you can see
within range. lt must succeed on a Wisdom saving
throw or be charmed by you for the duration. Ifyou or
creatures that are friendly to you are fighting it, it has
advantage on the saving throw.
While the creature is charmed, you have a telepathic
link with it as long as the two of you are on the same
plane of existence. Vou can use this telepathic link to
issue commands to the creature while you are conscious
(no action required), which it does its best to obey. Vou
can specify a simple and general course of action, such
as "Attack that creature," "Run over there," or "Fetch
that object." If the creature completes the order and
doesn't receive further direction from you, it defends
and preserves itself to the best of its ability.
Vou can use your action to take total and precise
contraI of the targe!. Until the end of your next turn, the
creature takes only the actions you choose, and doesn't
do anything that you don't allow it to do. During this
time, you can also cause the creature to use a reaction,
but this requires you to use your own reaction as well.
Each time the target takes damage, it makes a new
Wisdom saving throw against the spell. If the saving
throw succeeds, the spell ends.
At Higher Leve/s.When you cast this spell with
a 9th.level spell slot, the duration is concentration,
up to 8 hours.
DOMINATE PERSON
5th.level enchantment
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,5
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
Vou attempt to beguile a humanoid that you can see
within range. lt must succeed on a Wisdom saving
throw or be charmed by you for the duration. Ifyou or
creatures that are friendly to you are fighting it, it has
advantage on the saving throw.
While the target is charmed, you have a telepathic link
with it as long as the two of you are on the same plane
of existence. Vou can use this telepathic link to issue
commands to the creature while you are conscious (no
action required), which it does its best to obey. Vou can
specify a simple and general course of action, such as
"Attack that creature," "Run over there," or "Fetch that
object." If the creature completes the order and doesn't
receive further direction from you, it defends and
preserves itself to the best of its ability.
Vou can use your action to take total and precise
contrai of the targe!. Until the end of your next turn, the
creature takes only the actions you choose, and doesn't
do anything that you don't allow it to do. During this
time you can also cause the creature to use a reaction,
but this requires you to use your own reaction as well.
Each time the target takes damage, it makes a new
Wisdom saving throw against the spell. If the saving
throw succeeds, the spell ends.
At Higher Leve/s.When you cast this spell using
a 6th.level spell slot, the duration is concentration,
up to 10 minutes. When you use a 7th.level spell slot,
the duration is concentration, up to I hour. When you
use a spell slot of 8th levei or higher, the duration is
concentration, up to 8 hours.
DRAWMIJ'S INSTANT SUMMONS
6th.level conjuration (ritual)
Casting Time: I minute
Range: Touch
Components: V,5,M (a sapphire worth 1,000 gp)
Duration: Until dispelled
Vou touch an object weighing 10 pounds or less whose
longest dimension is 6 feet or less. The spellleaves an
invisible mark on its surface and invisibly inscribes the
na me of the item on the sapphire you use as the material
componen!. Each time you cast this spell, you must use
a different sapphire.
At any time thereafter, you can use your action to
speak the item's name and crush the sapphire. The item
instantly appears in your hand regardless of physical or
planar distances, and the spell ends.
PART 3  SPELLS235
----------------Page (24) Break----------------
]f another creature is holding or carrying the item,
crushing the sapphire doesn't transport the item to you,
but instead you learn who the creature possessing the
object is and roughly where that creature is located
at that moment.
Dispel magicor a similar effect successfully applied to
the sapphire ends this spell's effect.
DREAM
5th-leveI iIIusion
Casting Time: I minute
Range: 5pecial
Components: V,5, M (a handful of sand, a dab of ink,
and a writing quill plucked from a sleeping bird)
Duration: 8 hours
This spell shapes a creature's dreams. Choose a
creature known to you as the target of this spell. The
target must be on the same plane of existence as you.
Creatures that don't sleep, such as elves, can't be
contacted by this spell. Vou, or a willing creature you
touch, enlers a trance state, acting as a messenger.
While in the trance, the messenger is aware of his or
her surroundings, but can't take actions or move.
If the target is asleep, the messenger appears in the
target's dreams and can converse with the target as
long as it remains asleep, through the duration of the
spell. The messenger can also shape the environment
of the dream, creating landscapes. objects, and other
images. The messenger can emerge from the trance at
any time, ending the effect of the spell early. The target
recalls the dream perfectly upon waking. If the target is
awake when you cast the spell, the messenger knows it,
and can either end the trance (and the spell) or wait for
the target to fali asleep, at which point the messenger
appears in the target's dreams.
Vou can make the messenger appear monstrous
and terrifying to the target. Ifyou do, the messenger
can deliver a message of no more than ten words and
then the target must make a Wisdom saving throw. On
a failed save, echoes of the phantasmal monstrosity
spawn a nightmare that lasts the duration of the target's
sleep and prevents the target from gaining any benefit
from that rest. In addition, when the target wakes up, it
takes 3d6 psychic damage.
Ifyou have a body part, lock of hair, c1ipping from a
nail, or similar portion of the target's body, the target
makes its saving throw with disadvantage.
DRUIDCRAFT
Transmutation  cantrip
Casting Time: I action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,5
Duration: Instantaneous
Whispering to the spirits of nature, you create one of the
following effects within range:
Vou create a tiny, harmless sensory effect that predicts
what the weather will be at your location for the next
24 hours. The effect might manifest as a golden orb
PA RT 3ISPELI.S
for c1ear skies, a c10ud for rain, falling snowflakes for
snow, and so on. This effect persists for I round.
Vou instantly make a flower blossom, a seed pod open,
or a leaf bud bloom.
Vou create an instantaneous, harmless sensory effect,
such as falling leaves, a puff of wind, the sound of a
small animal, or the faint odor of skunk. The effect
must fit in a 5-foot cube.
Vou instantly light or snuff out a candle, a torch, or a
small campfire.
EARTHQUAKE
8th-leveI evocation
Casting Time: I action
Range: 500 feet
Components: V,5, M (a pinch of dirl, a piece of rock,
and a lump of c1ay)
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
Vou create a seismic disturbance at a point on the
ground that you can see within range. For the duration,
an intense tremor rips through the ground in a
100-foot-radius circ1e centered on that point and shakes
creatures and structures in contact with the ground
in that area.
The ground in the area becomes difficult terrain.
Each creature on the ground that is concentrating must
make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the
creature's concentration is broken.
When you cast this spell and at the end of each turn
you spend concentrating on it, each creature on the
ground in the area must make a Dexterity saving throw.
On a failed save, the creature is knocked prone.
This spell can have additional effects depending on
the terra in in the area, as determined by the DM.
Fissures.Fissures open throughout the spell's area at
the start of your next turn after you cast the spell. A total
of Id6 such fissures open in locations chosen by the DM.
Each is IdlO x 10 feet deep, la feet wide, and extends
from one edge of the spell's area to the opposite side.
A creature standing on a spot where a fissure opens
must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or fali in. A
creature that sllccessfully saves moves with the fissure's
edge as it opens.
A fissure that opens beneath a structure causes it to
automatically collapse (see below).
Structures.The tremor deals 50 bludgeoning damage
to any structure in contact with the ground in the area
when you cast the spell and at the start of each of your
turns until the spell ends. ]f a structure drops to Ohit
points, it collapses and potentially damages nearby
creatures. A crealure within half the distance of a
structure's height must make a Dexterity saving throw.
On a failed save, the creature takes 5d6 bludgeoning
damage, is knocked prone, and is buried in the rubble,
requiring a DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check as an
action to escape. The DM can adjust the DC higher
or lower, depending on the nalure of the rubble. On
a successful save, the creature takes half as much
damage and doesn't fali prone or become buried.
----------------Page (25) Break----------------
ELDRITCH BLAST
Evocation cantrip
Casting Time: 1action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,5
Duration: lnstantaneous
A beam of crackling energy streaks toward a creature
within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the
target. On a hit, the target takes ldlO force damage.
The spell creates more than one beam when you reach
higher leveis: two beams at 5th levei, three beams at
11th levei, and four beams at 17th leveI.Voucan direct
the beams at the same target or at different ones. Make
a separate attack roll for each beam.
ELEMENTAL WEAPON
3rd-/evel transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,5
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
A nonmagical weapon you touch becomes a magic
weapon. Choose one of the following damage types:
acid, cold, tire, Iightning, or thunder. For the duration,
the weapon has a +1 bonus to attack rolls and deals an
extra ld4 damage of the chosen type when it hits.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 5th or 6th leveI.the bonus to attack rolls
increases to +2 and the extra damage increases to
2d4. When you use a spell slot of 7th levei ar higher,
the bonus increases to +3 and the extra damage
increases to 3d4.
ENHANCE ABILITY
2nd-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: 1action
Range: Touch
Components: V,5, M (fur ar a feather from a beast)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour.
Voutouch a creature and bestow upon it a magical
enhancement. Choose one of the following effects; the
target gains that effect until the spell ends.
Bear's Endurance.The target has advantage on
Constitution checks. lt also gains 2d6 temporary hit
points, which are lost when the spell ends.
BulJ's Strength.The target has advantage
on 5trength checks, and his or her carrying
capacity doubles.
Cat'sGrace. The target has advantage on Dexterity
checks. lt also doesn't take damage from falling 20 feet
or less if it isn't incapacitated.
Eagle's Splendor.The target has advantage on
Charisma checks.
Fox's Cunning.The target has advantage on
Intelligence checks.
Owl's Wisdom.The target has advantage on
Wisdom checks.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd leveIor higher, you can target one
additional creature for each slot leveIabove 2nd.
ENLARGE/REDUCE
2nd-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,5, M(a pinch of powdered iron)
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
Voucause a creature or an object you can see within
range to grow larger or smaller for the duration. Choose
either a creature ar an object that is neither worn
nor carried. If the target is unwilling, it can make a
Constitution saving throw. On a success, the spell
has no effect.
If the target is a creature, everything it is wearing and
carrying changes size with it. Any item dropped byan
affected creature returns to normal size at once.
Enlarge.The target's size doubles in ali dimensions,
and its weight is multiplied byeight. This growth
increases its size byone category-from Medium to
Large, for example. If there isn't enough room for the
target to double its size. the creature or object attains
the maximum possible size in the space available.
Until the spell ends, the target also has advantage on
5trength checks and 5trength saving throws. The
target's weapons also grow to match its new size. While
these weapons are enlarged, the target's attacks with
them deal ld4 extra damage.
Reduce.The target's size is halved in ali dimensions,
and its weight is reduced to one-eighth of normal. This
reduction decreases its size by one category-from
Medium to 5mall, for example. Until the spell ends,
the target also has disadvantage on 5trength checks
and 5trength saving throws. The target's weapons also
shrink to match its new size. While these weapons are
reduced, the target's attacks with them deal ld4 less
damage (this can't reduce the damage below 1).
ENSNARING STRIKE
1st-leveI conjuration
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 5elf
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
The next time you hit a creature with a weapon attack
before this spell ends, a writhing mass of thorny vines
appears at the point of impact, and the target must
succeed on a 5trength saving throw ar be restrained by
the magical vines until the spell ends. A Large ar larger
creature has advantage on this saving throw. Ifthe
target succeeds on the save, the vines shrivel away.
While restrained bythis spell, the target takes ld6
piercing damage at the start ofeach of its turns. Acreature
restrained bythe vines or one lhat can touch the creature
can use its action to make a 5trength check against your
spell save De. On a success, the target is freed.
At Higher LeveIs.Ifyou cast this spell using a spell
slot of 2nd levei or higher, the damage increases by ld6
for each slot levei above 1sI.
PART 3ISPlI LS237
----------------Page (26) Break----------------
ENTANGLE
1st.level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Grasping weeds and vines sproutframthe ground in a
20-foot square starting from a point within range. For
the duration, these plants turo the ground in the area
into difficult terrain.
Acreature in the area when you cast the spell must
succeed on a Strength saving throw ar be restrained
by the entangling plants until the spell ends. Acreature
restrained by the plants can use its action to make
a Strength check against your spell save De. On a
success, it frees itself.
When the spell ends, the conjured plants wilt away.
ENTHRALL
2nd.level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: 1 minute
Vouweave a distracting string of words, causing
creatllres ofyour choice that you can see within range
and that can hear you to make a Wisdom saving
throw. Any creature that can't be charmed succeeds
on this saving throw automatically, and ifyou or YOllr
companions are fighting a creature, it has advantage on
the save. On a failed save, the target has disadvantage
on Wisdom (Perception) checks made to perceive any
creature other than you until the spell ends or until the
target can no longer hear YOll.The spell ends ifyou are
incapacitated or can no longer speak.
ETHEREALNESS
7th-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V,S
Duration: Up to 8 hours
Voustep into the border regions of the Ethereal Plane,
in the area where it overlaps with your current plane.
Vouremain in the Border Ethereal for the duration or
until you use your action to dismiss the spell. During
this time, you can move in any direction. Ifyou move
up or down, every foot of movement costs an extra fool.
Voucan see and hear the plane YOlloriginated from, but
everything there looks gray, and you can't see anything
more than 60 feet away.
While on the Ethereal Plane, you can only affect and
be affected by other crealures on thal plane. Creatures
that aren't on the Elhereal Plane can't perceive you and
can't interact with you, unless a special ability ar magic
has given them the ability to do so.
Youignore ali objects and effects lhat aren't on the
Ethereal Plane, allowing you to move through objects
you perceive on the plane you originated from.
PART 3ISPELLS
When the spell ends, you immediately returo to the
plane you originated from in lhe spot you currently
occupy. Ifyou occupy the same spot as a solid object
or creature when this happens, you are immediately
shunted to the nearest unoccupied space that you
can occupy and take force damage equal to twice lhe
number of feet you are moved.
This spell has no effect ifyou cast il while you are on
the Ethereal Plane or a plane that doesn't border it, such
as one of the Outer Planes.
At Higher Leve1s.When you cast this spell using
a spell slol of 81h leveIor higher, you can target up to
three willing crealures (including you) for each slot levei
above 7th. The creatures musl be within 10 feet ofyou
when you cast the spell.
EVARD'S BLACK TENTACLES
4th.level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V,S, M(a piece of tentacle from a giant
octopus or a giant squid)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Squirming, ebony tentades filla 20.foot square on
ground that you can see within range. For the duration,
these tentacles turo lhe ground in the area into
difficult terrain.
When a creature enlers the affected area for the first
time on aturo or starts its turo lhere, the creature
must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 3d6
bludgeoning damage and be restrained by the tentacles
until the spell ends. Acreature that starts its turo in the
area and is already restrained by the tentacles lakes 3d6
bludgeoning damage,
Acreature reslrained bythe tentacles can use ils
action lo make a Strength ar Dexterity check (its choice)
against your spell save DC. On a success, it frees itself.
EXPEDITIOUS  RETREAT
1st-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: I bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up lo 10minutes
This spell allows you to move at an incredible pace.
When you cast this spell, and then as a bonus action
on each of your turos unlil the spell ends, you can take
the Dash action.
EYEBITE
6th.level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
For the spell's duration, your eyes become an inky void
imbued with dread power. One creature ofyour choice
within 60 feet ofyou lhat you can see must succeed
on a Wisdom saving throw or be affected by one of the
following effects of your choice for the duralion. On
----------------Page (27) Break----------------
each of your turns until the spell ends, you can use
your aclion to target auother creature but can't target
a creature agaiu if it has succeeded on a saving throw
against this casting ofeyebite,
As/eep.The targel falls unconscious, lt wakes up if it
takes any damage nr if another creature uses its action
to shake the sleeper awake,
Panicked.The target is frightened of you. On each
of its lurns, the frightened creature must take the
Dash action and move away from you by the safest and
shortest available route, unless there is nowhere to
move. lf the target moves to a place at least 60 feet away
from you where it can no longer see you, this effect ends.
Sickened.The target has disadvantage ou attack rolls
and ability checks. At the end of each of its turns, it can
make another Wisdom saving throw. lf it succeeds,
the effect ends.
FABRICATE
4th-levei transmutation
Casting Time: lO minutes
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou convert raw materiais into products of the same
material. For example, you can fabricate a wooden
bridge from a c1ump of trees, a rope from a patch of
hemp, and C10thes from flax or wool.
Choose raw materiais that you can see wilhin range.
Vou can fabricale a Large or smaller object (contained
within a lO-fool cube. ar eight connected 5-foot cubes),
given a sufficient quantity of raw material. Ifyou
are working with metal. stone, or anolher mineral
substance, however, the fabricated object can be no
larger than Medium (coutained within a single 5-foot
cube). The quality of objects made by the spell is
commensurate with the quality of the raw materiais.
Creatures or magic items can't be created or
transmuted by this spell. Vou also can't use it to
create items that ordinarily require a high degree of
craftsmanship, such as jewelry, weapons. glass, or
armor, unless you have proficiency with the type of
artisan's tools used to craft such objects.
FAERIE FIRE
1st-leveI evocation
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Each object in a 20-foot cube within range is outlined in
blue, green, or violet light (your choice). Any creature in
the area when lhe spell is cast is also outlined in light if
it fails a Dexterity saving throw. For lhe duration, objects
and affected creatures shed dim light in a 10.fool radius.
Any attack roll against an affected creature or object
has arlvantage if the attacker can see it, and the affected
creature or object can't benefit from being invisible.
FALSE LIFE
1st-levei necromancy
Casting Time: I action
Range: Self
Components: V,S, M (a small amount of alcohol or
distilled spirits)
Duration: I hour
Bolstering yourself with a necromantic facsimile of life,
you gain Id4+4 temporary hit points for the rluration.
At Higher LeveIs.When you casl this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd levei or higher, you gain 5 adrlitional
temporary hit points for each slollevel above 1st.
FEAR
3rd-level iIIusion
Casting Time: I action
Range: Self (30-foot cone)
Components: V,S, M (a white feather or the
heart of a hen)
Duration: Concentration, up lo 1 minule
Vou project a phantasmal image of a creature's worst
fears. Each creature in a 30-foot cone must succeed on
a Wisdom saving throw or rlrop whatever it is holrling
anrl beco me frightened for the duration.
While frightened by this spell, a creature must take
the Dash action and move away from you by lhe safest
available route on each of its turns, unless there is
nowhere to move. If the creature enrls its turn in a
location where it doesn't have line of sight to you,
the creature can make a Wisdom saving throw. On a
successful save, the spell enrls for that creature.
FEATHER FALL
1st-levei transmutation
Casting Time: I reaction, which you take when you or a
creature within 60 feet ofYOIIfalls
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, M (a sma 11feather or piece of down)
Duration: I minute
Choose up to five falling creatures within range. A
falling creature's rate of descent slows to 60 feet per
round until the spell ends. lf the creature lands before
the spell ends, it takes no falling damage and can land
on its feel, and the spell ends for that creature.
FEEBLEMIND
8th-levei enchantment
Casting Time: I action
Range: ISO feet
Components: V,S, M (a handful of c1ay,crystal, glass,
or mineral spheres)
Durat;on: Instantaneous
Vou hlast the mind of a crealure that you can see within
range, altempting to shatter its intellect and personality.
The target takes 4d6 psychic damage and must make an
Intelligence saving throw.
On a failed save, the creature's Intclligence and
Charisma scores become I. The creature can't cast
spells, activate magic items, understand language, or
P\kT3l'L
----------------Page (28) Break----------------
communicate in any intelligible way. The creature can,
however, identify its friends, follow them, and even
protect them.
At the end of every 30 days, the creature can repeat
its saving throw against this spell. If it succeeds on its
saving throw, the spell ends.
The spell can also be ended bygreater restoration,
heal,orwish.
FEIGN DEATH
3rd-Ievel necromancy (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,5, M (a pinch of graveyard dirt)
Duration: 1 hour
Vou touch a willing creature and put it into a cataleptic
state that is indistinguishable from death.
For the spell's duration, or until you use an action
to touch the target and dismiss the spell, the target
appears dead to ali outward inspection and to spells
used to determine the target's status. The target is
blinded and incapacitated, and its speed drops to O.
The target has resistance to ali damage except psychic
damage. If the target is diseased or poisoned when you
cast the spell, or becomes diseased or poisoned while
under the spell's effect, the disease and poison have no
effect until the spell ends.
FINO FAMILIAR
1st-levei conjuratian (ritual)
Casting Time: I hour
Range: 10 feet
Components: V,5, M (10 gp worth af charcaal,
incense, and herbs that must be consumed by fire in a
brass brazier)
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou gain the service of a familiar, a spirit that takes an
animal form you choose: bat, cat, crab, frog (toad), hawk,
lizard, octopus, owl, poisonous snake, fish (quipper),
rat, raven, sea horse, spider, or weasel. Appearing in
an unoccupied space within range, the familiar has the
statistics of the chosen form, though it is a celestial, fey,
or fiend (your choice) instead of a beast.
Your familiar acts independently of you, but it always
obeys your commands. In combat, it rolls its own
initiative and acts on its own turno A familiar can't
attack, but it can take other actions as normal.
When the familiar drops to Ohit points, it disappears,
leaving behind no physical formo It reappears after you
cast this spell again
While your familiar is within 100 feet of you, you
can communicate with it telepathically. Additionally,
as an action, you can see through your familiar's eyes
and hear what it hears until the start of your next turn,
gaining the benefits of any special senses that the
familiar has. During this time, you are deaf and blind
with regard to your own senses.
As an action, you can temporarily dismiss your
familiar. It disappears into a pocket dimension where it
awaits your summons. Alternatively, you can dismiss it
forever. As an action while it is temporarily dismissed,
PART 3  SPELLS
you can cause it to reappear in any unoccupied space
within 30 feet ofYOU.
Vou can't have more than one familiar at a time. Ifyou
cast this spell while you already have a familiar, you
instead cause it to adopt a new formo Choose one of the
forms from the above list. Your familiar transforms into
the chosen creature.
Finally, when you cast a spell with a range of touch,
your familiar can deliver the spell as if it had cast the
spell. Your familiar must be within 100 feet of you, and
it must use its reaction to deliver the spell when you cast
it. If the spell requires an attack roll, you use your attack
modifier for the roll.
FINO STEEO
2nd-levei conjuration
Castiog Time: 10 minutes
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,5
Duratioo: Instantaneous
Vou summon a spirit that assumes the form of an
unusually intelligent, strong, and loyal steed, creating a
long-Iasting bond with it. Appearing in an unoccupied
space within range, the steed takes on a form that you
choose, such as a warhorse, a pony, a camel, ao elk, or
a mastiff. (Your DM might allow other animais to be
summoned as steeds.) The steed has the statistics of the
chosen form, though it is a celestial, fey,or fiend (your
choice) instead of its normal type. Additionally, if yaur
steed has an Intelligence of5or iess, its Intelligence
becomes 6, and it gains the ability to understaod one
laoguage of your choice that you speak.
Your steed serves you as a mount, both in combat and
out, and you have an instinctive bond with it that allows
you to fight as a seamless unit. While mounted on your
steed, you can make any spell you cast that targets only
you also target your steed.
Wheo the steed drops to Ohit points, it disappears,
leaving behind no physical formo Vou can also
dismiss your steed at any time as an action, causing
it to disappear. In either case, casting this spell
again summons the same steed, restored to its hit
point maximum.
While your steed is within 1 mile of you, you can
communicate with it telepathically.
You can't have more than one steed bonded by this
spell at a time. As an action, you can release the steed
from its bond at any time, causing it to disappear.
FINO THE PATH
6th-levei divination
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 5elf
Components: V,5, M (a set of divinatory tools-such
as bones, ivory sticks, cards, teeth, or carved runes-
worth 100 gp and an object from the location you
wish to find)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 day
This spell allows you to find the shortest, most direct
physical route to a specific fixed location that you are
familiar with on the same plane of existence.Iryou
----------------Page (29) Break----------------
name a destination on another plane of existenee, a
destination that moves (sueh as a mobile fortress), or a
destination that isn't specilie (sueh as "a green dragon's
lair"), the spell fails.
For the duration, as long as you are on the same plane
of existenee as the destination, you know how far it is
and in what direetion it lies. While you are traveling
there, whenever you are presented with a ehoiee of
paths along the way, you automatieally determine whieh
path is the shortest and most direet route (but not
neeessarily the safest route) to the destination.
FINDTRAPS
2nd-leveI divination
Casting Time: 1 aetion
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
You sense the presenee of any trap within range that
is within line of sight. A trap, for the purpose of this
spell, includes anything that would inflict a sudden or
unexpeeted effeet you eonsider harmful or undesirable,
which was speeilieally intended as sueh by its ereator.
Thus, the spell would sense an area affeeted by the
alarmspell, aglyph of warding,or a meehanieal pit trap,
but it would not reveal a natural weakness in the floor,
an unstable eeiling, or a hidden sinkhole.
This spell merely reveals that a trap is present. You
don't learo the loeation of eaeh trap, but you do learo the
general nature of the danger posed by a trap you sense.
FINGE R OF DEATH
7th-leveI neeromaney
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
You send nega tive energy coursing through a ereature
that you ean see within range, causing it searing pain.
The target must make a Constitution saving throw. It
takes 7d8+30 necrotic damage on a failed save, or half
as mueh damage on a sueeessful one.
A humanoid killed by this spell rises at the start of
your next turo as a zombie that is permanently under
your command, following your verbal orders to the best
of its ability.
FIREBALL
3rd~evelevoeaUon
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V,S, M (a tiny ball of bat
guano and sulfur)
Duration: Instantaneous
A bright streak flashes from your pointing linger to a
point you ehoose within range and then blossoms with
a low roar into an explosion of flame. Each creature
in a 20-foot-radius sphere eentered on that point must
make a Dexterity saving throw. A target takes 8d6 /ire
----------------Page (30) Break----------------
-
damage on a failed save, or half as mueh damage on a
sueeessful one,
The /ire spreads around eorners. It ignites flammable
objeets in the area that aren't being worn or earried.
At Higher Leve/s.When you east this spell using a
spell slot of 4th levei or higher, the damage inereases by
Id6 for eaeh slot levei above 3rd.
FIRE BOLT
Evoeation eantrip
Casting Time: I aetion
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,5
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou hurl a mote of /ire at a ereature or objeet within
range. Make a ranged spell attaek against the
targel. On a hit, the target takes IdlO /ire damage. A
flammable objeet hit by this spell ignites if it isn't being
worn or earried.
This spell's damage inereases by IdlO when you reaeh
5th levei (2dlO), 11th levei (3d 10), and 17th levei (4dlO).
FIRE SHIELD
4th./evel evoeation
Casting Time: I aetion
Range: 5elf
Components: V,5, M (a bit of phosphorus or a /irefly)
Duration: 10 minutes
Thin and wispy flames wreathe your body for the
duration, shedding bright light in a 10.foot radius and
dim light for an additional lO feel. Vou ean end the spell
early by using an aetion to dismiss il.
The flames provide YOllwith a warm shield or a ehill
shield, as you ehoose. The warm shield grants you
resistanee to eold damage, and the ehill shield grants
you resistanee to /ire damage.
In addition, whenever a ereature within 5 feet of you
hits you with a melee attaek, the shield erupts with
flame. The attaeker takes 2d8 /ire damage from a warm
shield, or 2d8 eold damage from a eold shield.
FIRE STORM
7th./evel evoeation
Casting Time: I aetion
Range: 150 feet
Components: V,5
Duration: Instantaneous
A storm made up of sheets of roaring flame appears
in a loeation you ehoose within range. The area of the
storm eonsists of up to ten 10.foot eubes, whieh you ean
arrange as you wish. Eaeh eube must have at least one
faee adjaeent to the faee of another eube. Eaeh ereature
in the area must make a Dexterity saving throw. It
takes 7d10 /ire damage on a failed save, or half as mueh
damage on a sueeessful one.
The /ire damages objeets in the area and ignites
flammable objeets that aren't being worn or earried.
Ifyou ehoose, plant life in the area is unaffeeted
by this spell.
PART 3ISPELLS
FLAME BLADE
2nd./evel evoeation
Casting Time: I bonus aetion
Range: 5elf
Components: V,5, M (leaf of sumae)
Duration: Coneentration, up to 10 minutes
Vou evoke a /iery blade in your free hand. The blade is
similar in size and shape to a seimitar, and it lasts for
the duration. lf you let go of the blade, it disappears, but
YOllean evoke the blade again as a bonus aetion.
Vou ean use your aetion to make a melee spel1
attaek with the /iery blade. On a hit, the target takes
3d6 /ire damage.
The flaming blade sheds bright light in a 10.foot
radills and dim light for an additional 10 feel.
At Higher Leve/s.When you east this spel1 lIsing a
spell slot of 4th levei or higher, the damage inereases by
Id6 for every two slot leveIs above 2nd.
FLAME STRIKE
5th-levei evocation
Casting Time: I aetion
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,5, M (pineh of sulfur)
Duration: Instantaneous
A vertieal column of divine /ire roars down from the
heavens in a loeation YOllspecify. Eaeh ereature in
a lO.foot.radius, 40.foot-high cylinder eentered on a
point within range must make a Dexterity saving throw.
A ereature takes 4d6 /ire damage and 4d6 radiant
damage on a failed save, or half as mueh damage on a
sueeessful one.
At Higher Leve/s.When you east this spel1 using a
spell slot of 6th levei or higher, the /ire damage or the
radiant damage (your ehoice) inereases by Id6 for eaeh
slot levei above 5th.
FLAMING SPHERE
2nd-levei eonjuration
Casting Time: I aetion
Range: 60 feet
Components: V.5, M (a bit of tallow, a pineh of
brimstone, and a dusting of powdered iran)
Duration: Coneentration, up to I minute
A 5-foot.diameter sphere of /ire appears in an
unoeeupied spaee of your ehoice within range and lasts
for the duration. Any ereature that ends its turn within 5
feet of the sphere must make a Dexterity saving thraw.
The ereature takes 2d6 /ire damage on a failed save, or
half as mueh damage on a sueeessful one.
As a bonus aetion, you ean move the sphere up to 30
feel. If you ram the sphere into a ereature, that ereature
must make the saving throw against the sphere's
damage, and the sphere stops moving this turno
When you move the sphere, you ean direet it over
barriers up to 5 feet tall and jump it aeross pits up to
lO feet wide. The sphere ignites flammable objeets not
being worn or earried, and it sheds bright light in a
20.foot radius and dim light for an additional 20 feel.
----------------Page (31) Break----------------
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd levei or higher, the damage increases by
Id6 for each slot levei above 2nd.
FLESH TO STONE
6th-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S, M(a pinch of lime, water, and earth)
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
Vouattempt to turo one creature that you can see within
range into stone. If the target's body is made of flesh, the
creature must make a Constitution saving throw. On a
failed save, it is restrained as its Aeshbegins to harden.
On a successful save, the creature isn't affected.
Acreature restrained by this spell must make another
Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turos.
lf it successfully saves against this spell three times, the
spell ends. If it fails its saves three times, it is turoed
to stone and subjected to the petrified condition for the
duration. The successes and failures don't need to be
consecutive; keep track of both until the target collects
three of a kind.
lf the creature is physically broken while petrified,
it suffers from similar deformities if it reverts to its
original state.
lf you maintain your concentration on this spell for the
entire possible duration, the creature is turoed to stone
until the effect is removed.
FLY
3rd-Ievel transmutation
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M (a wing feather from any blrd)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Voutouch a willing creature. The target gains a flying
speed of 60 feet for the duration. When the spell ends,
the target falls if it is still aloft, unless It can stop the falI.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th leveIor higher, you can target one
additional creature for each slot levei above 3rd.
FOG CLOUD
1st-leveI conjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to I hOllr
Voucreate a 20-foot-radius sphere of fog centered on a
point within range. The sphere spreads around coroers,
and its area is heavily obscured. It lasts for the duration
or until a wind of moderate or greater speed (at least 10
miles per hour) disperses it.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd levei or higher, the radius of the fog
increases by 20 feet for each slot levei above 1st.
FORBIDDANCE
6th-leveI abjuration (ritual)
Casting Time: 10mlnutes
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M(a sprinkling of holy water, rare
incense, and powdered ruby worth at least 1,000 gp)
Duration: I day
Voucreate a ward against magical traveI that protects
up to 40,000 square feet of floar space to a height of 30
feet above the floor. For the duration, creatures can't
teleport into the area or use portais. such as those
created bythegatespell. to enter the area. The spell
proofs the area against planar travei, and therefore
prevents creatllres from accessing the area byway of
the Astral Plane, Ethereal Plane, Feywild, Shadowfell,
or theplane shiftspell.
In addition, the spell damages types of crealures thal
you choose when you cast it. Choose one or more of the
following: celestiaIs, elementals, fey,fiends, and undead.
When a chosen creature enlers the spell's area for lhe
firsllime on aturo or slarls its luro there, the creature
takes 5d1Oradianl or necrotic damage (your choice
when you cast this spell).
When you cast this spell, you can designate a
password. Acreature that speaks the password as it
enters the area takes no damage from the spell.
The spell's area can't overlap with the area of another
forbiddancespell. Ifyou castforbiddanceevery day for
30 days in the same location, the spell lasts until It is
dispelled, and the material components are consumed
on the last casting.
FORCECAGE
7th-leveI evocation
Casting Time: I action
Range: 100 feet
Components: V,S, M(ruby dllst worth 1,500 gp)
Duration: I hOllr
An immobile, invisible, cube-shaped prison composed of
magical force springs into existence around an area you
choose within range. The prison can be a cage or a solid
box, as you choose.
Aprison in the shape of a cage can be up to 20 feet on
a side and is made from 1/2-inch diameter bars spaced
1/2 inch apart.
Aprison in the shape of a box can be up to 10feet on
a side, creating a solid barrier that prevents any matter
from passing throllgh it and blocking any spells cast into
or out from the area.
When you cast the spell, any creature that is
completely inside the cage's area is trapped. Creatures
only partially within the area, or those too large to fit
Inside the area, are pushed away from the center of the
area until they are completely outside the area.
Acreature inside the cage can't leave It by nonmagical
means, If the creature tries to use teleportation or
interplanar travei to leave the cage, it must first make a
Charisma saving throw. On a success, the creature can
PART3SPELLS
----------------Page (32) Break----------------
use that magic to exit the cage. On a failure, the creature
can't exit the cage and wastes the use of the spell or
effecl. The cage also extends into the Ethereal Plane,
blocking ethereal traveI.
This spell can't be dispelled bydispel magic.
FORESIGHT
9th-leveI divination
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Touch
Components: V,5, M (a hummingbird feather)
Duration: 8 hours
Voutouch a willing creature and bestow a limited ability
to see into the immediate future. For the duration, the
target can't be surprised and has advantage on attack
rolls, ability checks, and saving throws. Additionally,
other creatures have disadvantage on attack rolls
against the target for the duration.
This spell immediately ends ifyou cast it again before
its duration ends.
FREEDOM OF MOVEMENT
4th-leveI abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,5, M (a leather strap, bound around the
arm or a similar appendage)
Duration: 1 hour
Voutouch a willing creature. For the duration, the
target's movement is unaffected by difficult terrain, and
spells and other magical effects can neither reduce
the target's speed nor cause the target to be paralyzed
or restrained.
The target can also spend 5 feet of movement to
automatically escape from nonmagical restraints, such
as manacles or a creature that has it grappled. Finally,
being underwater imposes no penalties on the target's
movement or attacks.
FRIENDS
Enchantmentcantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 5elf
Components: 5, M (a small amount of makeup applied
to the face as this spell is cast)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
For the duration, you have advantage on ali Charisma
checks directed at one creature of your choice that isn't
hostile toward you. When the spell ends, the creature
realizes that you used magic to influence its mood
and becomes hostile toward you. A creature prone
to violence might attack you. Another creature might
seek retribution in other ways (at the DM's discretion),
depending on the nature of your interaction with il.
GASEOUS FORM
3rd-IeveI transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
PART 3ISPELLS
Components: V,5. M(a bit of gauze and a
wisp of smoke)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Voutransform a willing creature you touch, along with
everything it's wearing and carrying, into a misty cloud
for the duration. The spell ends if the creature drops to
Ohit points. An incorporeal creature isn't affected.
While in this form, the target's only method of
movement is a flying speed of 10feel. The target can
enter and occupy the space of another creature. The
target has resistance to nonmagical damage, and it has
advantage on 5trength, Dexterity, and Constitution
saving throws. The target can pass through small holes,
narrow openings, and even mere cracks, though it treats
liquids as though they were solid surfaces. The target
can't fali and remains hovering in the air even when
stunned or otherwise incapacitated.
While in the form of a misty cloud, the target can't talk
or manipulate objects, and any objects it was carrying or
holding can't be dropped, used, or otherwise interacted
with. The target can't attack or cast spells.
GATE
9th-leveI conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,5, M(a diamond worth at least 5.000 gp)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Vouconjure a portallinking an unoccupied space you
can see within range to a precise location on a different
plane of existence. The portal is a circular opening,
which you can make 5 to 20 feet in diameter. Voucan
orient the portal in any direction you choose. The portal
lasts for the duration.
The portal has a front and a back on each plane where
it appears. Travei through the portal is possible only
by moving through its fronl. Anything that does so is
instantly transported to the other plane, appearing in
the unoccupied space nearest to the portal.
Deities and other planar ruIers can prevent portaIs
created by this spell from opening in their presence or
anywhere within their domains.
When you cast this spell, you can speak the name
of a specific creature (a pseudonym, title, or nickname
doesn't work).]fthat creature is on a plane other than
the one you are on, the portal opens in the named
creature's immediate vicinity and draws the creature
through it to the nearest unoccupied space on your side
of the portal. Vougain no special power over the creature,
and it is free to act as the DMdeems appropriate. lt
might leave, attack you, or help you.
GEAS
5th~eveIenchantment
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: 30 days
Vouplace a magical command on a creature that you
can see within range, forcing it to carry out some
----------------Page (33) Break----------------
service or refrain fram some action or course of activity
as you decide. ]f the creature can understand you, it
must succeed on a Wisdom saving thraw or become
charmed by you for the duration. While the creature
is charmed by you, it takes 5dlO psychic damage
each time it acts in a manner directly counter to your
instructions, but no more than once each day. A creature
that can't understand you is unaffected by the spell.
Vou can issue any command you choose, short of an
activity that would result in certain death. Should you
issue a suicidal command, the spell ends.
Vou can end the spell early by using an action to
dismiss it. Aremovecurse,greater restoration,orwish
spell also ends it.
At Higher Leveis.When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th or 8th leveI, the duration is 1year.
When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 9th leveI,
the spelllasts until it is ended by one of the spells
mentioned above.
GENTLE REPOSE
2nd-level necromallcy  (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M (a pinch of salt and one copper
piece placed on each of the corpse's eyes, which must
remain there for the duration)
Duration: 10 days
Vou touch a corpse or other remains. For the
duration, the target is protected from decay and can't
become undead.
The spell also effectively extends the time Iimit on
raising the target from the dead, since days spent under
the influence of this spell don't count against the time
limit of spells such asraise dead.
GIANT INSECT
4th-level transmutatioll
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Vou transform up to ten centipedes, three spiders, tive
wasps, or one scorpion within range into giant versions
of their natural forms for the duration. A centipede
becomes a giant centipede, a spider becomes a giant
spider, a wasp becomes a giant wasp, and a scorpion
becomes a giant scorpion.
Each creature obeys your verbal commands, and
in combat, they act on your tum each raund. The DM
has the statistics for these creatures and resolves their
actions and movement.
A creature remains in its giant size for the duration,
until it draps to Ohit points, or until you use an action to
dismiss the effect on it.
The DM might allow you to choose different targets.
For example, ifyou transform a bee, its giant version
might have the same statistics as a giant wasp.
GLIBNESS
8th-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: 1 hour
Until the spell ends, when you make a Charisma
check, you can replace the number you rall with aiS.
Additionally, no matter what you say, magic that would
determine if you are telling the truth indicates that you
are being truthful.
GLOBE OF INVULNERABILITY
6th-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (lO-foot radius)
Components: V,S, M (a glass or crystal bead that
shatters when the spell ends)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
An immobile, faintly shimmering barrier springs into
existence in a lO-foot radius around you and remains for
the duration.
Any spell of 5th leveI or lower cast from outside the
barrier can't affect creatures or objects within it, even
if the spell is cast using a higher leveI spell slot. Such a
spell can target creatures and objects within the barrier,
but the spell has no effect on them. Similarly, the area
within the barrier is excluded fram the areas affected
by such spells.
At Higher Leveis.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 7th leveI or higher, the barrier blocks spells
of one levei higher for each slot leveI above 6th.
GLYPH OF WARDING
3rd-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M (incense and powdered diamond
worth at least 200 gp. which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled or triggered
When you cast this spell, you inscribe a glyph that
harms other creatures, either upon a surface (such as
a table or a section of floor or wall) or within an object
that can be closed (such as a book, a scroll, or a treasure
chest) to conceal the glyph. Ifyou choose a surface, the
glyph can cover an area of the surface no larger than
10 feet in dia meter. lf you choose an object, that object
must remain in its place; if the object is moved more
than lO feet from where you cast this spell, the glyph is
broken, and the spell ends without being triggered.
The glyph is nearly invisible and requires a successful
Intelligence (lnvestigation) check against your spell save
DC to be found.
Vou decide what triggers the glyph when you cast
the spell. For glyphs inscribed on a surface, the most
typical triggers include touching or standing on the
glyph, removing another object covering the glyph,
approaching within a certain distance of the glyph, or
manipulating the object on which the glyph is inscribed.
For glyphs inscribed within an object, the most common
PART 3ISPELLS245
----------------Page (34) Break----------------
lriggers include opening lhal objecl, approaching wilhin
a cerlain dislance of lhe objecl, or seeing or reading lhe
glyph. Once a glyph is lriggered, lhis spell ends.
Voucan furlher retine lhe lrigger so lhe spell aclivales
only under cerlain circumslances or according lo
physical characlerislics (such as heighl or weighl),
crealure kind (for example, the ward could be seI lo
affecl aberralions or drow), or alignment. Voucan also
seI condilions for crealures lhal don'l lrigger lhe glyph,
such as lhose who say a cerlain password.
When you inscribe lhe glyph, chooseexpiosive runes
or aspell glyph.
Explosive Runes.When lriggered, lhe glyph erupls
with magical energy in a 20-fool-radius sphere cenlered
on lhe glyph. The sphere spreads around corners. Each
crealure in lhe area musl make a Dexlerily saving
lhrow. A crealure takes Sd8 acid, cold, tire, lighlning, or
thunder damage on a failed saving lhrow (your choice
when you creale the glyph), or half as much damage on a
successful one.
SpelJ Glyph.Voucan slore a prepared spell of
3rd levei or lower in lhe glyph bycasling it as parI
of crealing lhe glyph. The spell musl largel a single
crealure or an area. The spell being slored has no
immediale effecl when casl in lhis way. When lhe glyph
is lriggered, lhe slored spell is cast. Iflhe spell has a
largel, il largels lhe crealure lhal lriggered lhe glyph.
If lhe spell affecls an area, lhe area is cenlered on
lhal crealure. Ir lhe spell summons hoslile crealures
or creales harmful objecls or lraps, lhey appear as
close as possible lo lhe inlruder and attack it. Ir lhe
spell requires concenlralion, il !asls unlil lhe end of ils
full duralion.
At Higher Leveis.When you casl lhis spell using
a spell slol of 41hlevei or higher, lhe damage of an
expiosive runesglyph increases by Id8 for each si01
levei above 3rd. Ifyou creale aspell glyph,you can slore
any spell of up lo lhe same leve!as lhe si01you use for
lhegiyphofwarding.
GOODBERRY
1st-levei transmutation
Casting Time: I aclion
Range: Touch
Components: V,5, M (a sprig of mistleloe)
Duration: Inslanlaneous
Up lo len berries appear in your hand and are infused
wilh magic for lhe duralion. A crealure can use ilS
aclion to eal one berry. Ealing a berry reslores I hil
poinl, and lhe berry provides enough nourishmenl lo
suslain a creature for one day.
The berries lose lheir polency if lhey have nol been
consumed wilhin 24 hours of lhe casling of lhis spell.
GRASPING VINE
4th-ievei conjuration
Casting Time: I bonus aclion
Range: 30 feel
Components: V,S
Duration: Concenlralion, up lo I minule
PART 3ISPELLS
Vouconjure a vine lhal sprouls from lhe ground in an
unoccupied space ofyour choice lhal you can see wilhin
range. When you casl lhis spell, you can direcl lhe vine
lOlash oul at a crealure wilhin 30 feel of il lhal you can
see. Thal crealure musl succeed on a Dexlerily saving
lhrow or be pulled 20 feel direclly loward lhe vine.
Unlil lhe spell ends, you can direcl lhe vine lo lash oul
aI lhe same crealure or anolher one as a bonus aclion
on each ofyour lurns.
GREASE
1st-levei conjuration
Casting Time: I aclion
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,5, M(a bil of pork rind or butter)
Duration: I minule
5lick grease covers lhe ground in a lO-foolsquare
cenlered on a poinl wilhin range and lurns il inlo
difficull lerrain for lhe duralion.
When lhe grease appears, each crealure slanding in
ils area musl succeed on a Dexlerity saving lhrow or fali
prone. Acrealure thal enlers lhe area or ends ils lurn
lhere musl also succeed on a Dexlerily saving lhrow
or fali prone.
GREATER INVISIBILITY
4th-levei ilIusion
Casting Time: I aclion
Range: Touch
Components: V.5
Duration: Concenlralion, up lo I minule
Vouor a crealure you louch becomes invisible unlil lhe
spell ends. Anylhing lhe largel is wearing or carrying is
invisible as long as il is on lhe largel's person.
GREATER RESTORATlON
5th-ievei abjuration
Casting Time: I aclion
Range: Touch
Components: V,5, M (diamond dusl worlh aI leasl 100
gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Inslanlaneous
Vouimbue a crealure you louch wilh posilive energy lo
undo a debililating effect. Voucan reduce lhe largel's
exhauslion leveIby one, or end one of lhe following
effecls on lhe largel:
One effecl lhat charmed or pelritied lhe largel
One curse, including lhe larget's attunemenl lo a
cursed magic ilem
Any reduclion lo one of lhe largel's abilily scores
One effecl reducing lhe larget's hil poinl maximum
GUARDIAN OF FAITH
4th-ievei conjuration
Casting Time: I aclion
Range: 30 feel
Components: V
Duration: 8 hours
A Large speclral guardian appears and hovers for lhe
duralion in an unoccupied space ofyour choice lhal you
----------------Page (35) Break----------------

----------------Page (36) Break----------------

----------------Page (37) Break----------------
HAIL OF THORNS
1st-levei conjuration
Casting Time: I bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
The next time you hit a creature with a ranged weapon
atlack before the spell ends, this spell creates a rain
of thorns that sprouts from your ranged weapon or
ammunition. In addition to the normal effect of the
attack, the target of the atlack and each creature within
5 feet of it must make a Dexterity saving throw. A
creature takes Id 10 piercing damage on a failed save, ar
half as much damage on a successful one.
At Higher LeveIs.Ifyou cast this spell using a spell
slot of 2nd levei or higher, the damage increases by IdlO
for each slot leveI above Ist (to a maximum of 6d 10).
HALLOW
5th-levei evocation
Casting Time: 24 hours
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M (herbs, oils, and incense worth at
least 1,000 gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
Vou touch a point and infuse an area around it with holy
(or unholy) power. The area can have a radius up to 60
feet, and the spell fails if the radius includes an area
already under the effect ahallowspell. The affected area
is subject to the following effects.
First, celestiais, elementals, fey,fiends, and undead
can't enter the area, nor can such creatures charm,
frighten, or possess creatures within it. Any creature
charmed, frightened, or possessed by such a creature
is no longer charmed, frightened, or possessed upon
entering the area. Vou can exclude one or more of those
types of creatures from this effect.
Second, you can bind an extra effect to the area.
Choose the effect from the following list, or choose an
effect offered by the DM. Some of these effects apply to
creatures in the area; you can designate whether the
effect applies to ali creatures, creatures that follow a
specific deity or leader, or creatures of a specific sort,
such as orcs or trolls. When a creature that would be
affected enters the spell's area for the first time on a
turn or starts its turn there, it can make a Charisma
saving throw. On a success, the creature ignores the
extra effect until it leaves the area.
Courage.Affected creatures can't be frightened
while in the area.
Darkness.Darkness fills the area. Normallight,
as well as magicallight created by spells of a lower
levei than the slot you used to cast this spell, can't
illuminate the area.
DayJight.Bright light fills the area. Magical darkness
created by spells of a lower levei than the slot you used
to cast this spell can't extinguish the light.
Energy Protection.Affected creatures in the area
have resistance to one damage type of your choice,
except for bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing.
Energy VuInerabiJity.Affected creatures in the area
have vulnerability to one damage type of your choice,
except for bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing.
EverIasting Rest.Dead bodies interred in the area
can't be turned into undead.
Extradimensionallnterference.Affected creatures
can't move or traveI using teleportation or by
extradimensional or interplanar means.
Fear.Affected creatures are frightened
while in the area.
SiJence.No sound can emanate from within the area,
and no sound can reach into it.
Tongues.Affected creatures can communicate with
any other creature in the area, even if they don't share a
common language.
HALLUCINATORY TERRAIN
4th-levei iIIusion
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 300 feet
Components: V,S, M (a stone, a twig, and a bit
of green plant)
Duration: 24 hours
Vou make natural terrain in a 150-foot cube in range
look, sound, and smelllike some other sort of natural
terrain. Thus, open fields or a road can be made to
resemble a swamp, hill, crevasse, or some other difficult
or impassable terrain. A pond can be made to seem
like a grassy meadow, a precipice like a gentle slope,
or a rock-strewn gully like a wide and smooth road.
Manufactured structures, equipment, and creatures
within the area aren't changed in appearance.
The tactile characteristics of the terrain are
unchanged, so creatures entering the area are likely to
see through the illusion. If the difference isn't obvious
by touch, a creature carefully examining the illusion can
atlempt an Intelligence (lnvestigation) check against
your spell save DC to disbelieve it. A creature who
discerns the illusion for what it is, sees it as a vague
image superimposed on the terrain.
HARM
6th-levei necromancy
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou unleash a virulent disease on a creature that
you can see within range. The target must make a
Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, it takes
14d6 necrotic damage, or half as much damage on a
successful save. The damage can't reduce the target's
hit points below I. ]f the target fails the saving throw,
its hit point maximum is reduced for I hour byan
amount equal to the necrotic damage it took. Any effect
that removes a disease allows a creature's hit point
maximum to return to normal before that time passes,
PART 3  SPELLS249
----------------Page (38) Break----------------
HASTE
3rd-/evel transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,5, M (a shaving of licorice root)
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
Choose a willing creature that you can see within range.
Until the spell ends, the target's speed is doubled, it
gains a +2 bonus to AC,it has advantage on Dexterity
saving throws, and it gains an additional action on each
of its turns. That aclion can be used only lo lake the
Attack (one weapon attack only), Dash, Disengage, Hide,
or Use an Object aclion.
When lhe spell ends, the target can't move or take
actions until after its next turn, as a wave of lelhargy
sweeps over it.
HEAL
6th-levei evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,5
Duration: Instantaneous
Choose a crealure lhat you can see within range. A
surge of posilive energy washes through the creature,
causing it to regain 70 hit points. This spell also ends
blindness, deafness, and any diseases affecting the
larget. This spell has no effect on conslrucls or undead.
At Higher Leveis.When you cast this spell using a
spell slol of 7th levei or higher, the amount of healing
increases by 10 for each slot leveIabove 6th.
HEALING WORD
1st-levei evocation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instanlaneous
Acreature ofyour choice that you can see within range
regains hit points equal to Id4 + your spellcasting
ability modifier. This spell has no effect on undead
or constructs.
At Higher Leveis.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd levei or higher, lhe healing increases by
ld4 for each slol leveIabove 1st.
HEAT METAL
2nd-levei transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,5, M (a piece of iron and a flame)
Duration: Concenlration, up to 1 minute
Choose a manufactured metal object, such as a metal
weapon or a suit of heavy or medium metal armor, that
you can see within range. Voucause the object to glow
red-hot. Any creature in physical contact with the objecl
takes 2d8 fire damage when you cast the spell. Until the
spell ends, you can use a bonus action on each ofyour
subsequent turns to cause this damage again.
PART 3ISPEL[,S
If a creature is holding or wearing the object and
takes the damage from it, the creature must succeed on
a Constitution saving throw or drop the object if it canolf
it doesn't drop the object, it has disadvantage on attack
rolls and ability checks until the start ofyour next turno
At Higher Leveis.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd levei or higher, the damage increases by
ld8 for each sIot leveIabove 2nd.
HELLISH REBUKE
1st-/evel evocation
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take in response
to being damaged bya creature within 60 feet ofyou
that you can see
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,5
Duration: Instantaneous
Voupoint your finger, and the creature that damaged
you is momentarily surrounded by hellish flames. The
creature must make a Dexterity saving throw. It takes
2dlO fire damage on a failed save, or half as much
damage on a successful one.
At Higher Leveis.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd levei or higher, the damage increases by
ldl0 for each slot levei above 1st.
HEROES' FEAST
6th-levei conjuration
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,5 , M(a gem-encrusted bowl worth at
least 1,000 gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
Voubring forth a great feast, including magnificent
food and drink. The feast takes I hour to consume and
disappears at the end of that time, and the beneficiai
effects don't set in until this hour is over. Up to twelve
other creatures can partake of the feast.
A creature that partakes of the feast gains several
benefits. The creature is cured of ali diseases and
poison, becomes immune to poison and being
frightened, and makes ali Wisdom saving throws with
advantage. Its hit point maximum also increases by
2dl0, and it gains the same number of hit points. These
benefits last for 24 hours.
HEROISM
1st-levei enchantment
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V,5
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Awilling creature you touch is imbued with bravery.
Until the spell ends, the creature is immune to being
frightened and gains temporary hit points equal to
your spellcasting ability modifier at the start of each
of its turns. When the spell ends, the target loses any
remaining temporary hit points from this spell.
----------------Page (39) Break----------------
At Higher Leveis.When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd leveIor higher. you can target one
additional creature for each sIot levei above 1st.
HEX
1st-leveI enchantment
Casting Time: 1bonus action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V.S. M(the petrified eye of a newt)
Duration: Concentration. up to 1 hour
Vouplace a curse on a creature that you can see within
range. Until the spell ends. you deal an extra Id6
necrotic damage to the target whenever you hit it with
an attack. AIso. choose one ability when you cast the
spell. The target has disadvantage on ability checks
made with the chosen ability.
If the target drops toOhit points before this spell
ends. you can use a bonus action on a subsequent turn
ofyours to curse a new creature.
Aremove cursecast on the target ends this spell early.
At Higher Leveis.When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd or 4th leveI.you can maintain your
concentration on the spell for up to 8 hours. When you
use a spell slot of 5th levei or higher. you can maintain
your concentration on the spell for up to 24 hours.
HOLD MONSTER
5th-leveI enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V.S. M (a small. straight piece of iron)
Duration: Concentration. up to 1 minute
Choose a creature that you can see within range. The
target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be
paralyzed for the duration. This spell has no effect on
undead. At the end of each of its turns, the target can
make another Wisdom saving throw. On a success. the
spell ends on the target.
At Higher Leveis.When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th levei or higher. you can target one
additional creature for each slot leveIabove 5th. The
creatures must be within 30 feet of each other when
you target them.
HOLD PERSON
2nd-leveI enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S. M (a small, straight piece of iron)
Duration: Concentration. up to 1 minute
Choose a humanoid that you can see within range.
The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw
or be paralyzed for the duration. At the end of each of
its turns. the target can make another Wisdom saving
throw. On a success. the spell ends on the target.
At Higher Leveis.When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd levei or higher, you can target one
additional humanoid for each slot leveIabove 2nd. The
humanoids must be within 30 feet of each other when
you target them.
HOLY AURA
8th-leveI abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V.S. M (a tiny reliquary worth at least
1,000 gp containing a sacred relic, such as a scrap of
cloth from a saint's robe or a piece of parchment from
a religious text)
Duration: Concentration. up to 1 minute
Divine light washes out from you and coalesces
in a soft radiance in a 30-foot radius around you.
Creatures ofyour choice in that radius when you cast
this spell shed dim light in a 5-foot radius and have
advantage on ali saving throws. and other creatures
have disadvantage on attack rolls against them until
the spell ends. In addition, when a fiend or an undead
hits an affected creature with a melee attack. the aura
flashes with brilliant light. The attacker must succeed
on a Constitution saving throw or be blinded until
the spell ends.
HUNGER OF HADAR
3rd-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V,S. M (a pickled octopus tentacle)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Vouopen a gateway to the dark between the stars, a
region infested with unknown horrors. A 20-foot-radius
sphere of blackness and bitter cold appears. centered
on a point with range and lasting for the duration. This
void is filled with a cacophony of soft whispers and
slurping noises that can be heard up to 30 feet away. No
light, magical or otherwise, can illuminate the area, and
creatures fullywithin the area are blinded.
The void creates a warp in the fabric of space. and the
area is difficult terrain. Any creature that starts its turn
in the area takes 2d6 cold damage. Any creature that
ends its turn in the area must succeed on a Dexterity
saving throw or take 2d6 acid damage as milky.
otherworldly tentacles rub against it.
HUNTER'S MARK
1st-leveI divination
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Vouchoose a creature you can see within range and
mystically mark it as your quarry. Until the spell ends,
you deal an extra 1d6 damage to the target whenever
you hit itwith a weapon attack. and you have advantage
on any Wisdom (Perception) or Wisdom (Survival)
check you make to find it. lf the target drops toOhit
points before this spell ends. you can use a bonus action
on a subsequent turn ofyours to mark a new creature.
At Higher Leveis.When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd or 4th leveI,you can maintain your
concentration on the spell for up to 8 hours. When you
use a spell slot of 5th levei or higher, you can maintain
your concentration on the spell for up to 24 hours.
PART 3ISHLLS
----------------Page (40) Break----------------
252
HYPNOTIC  PATTERN
3rd-level iIIusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: 5, M (a glowing stick of incense or a
crystal viaIfilled with phosphorescent material)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Voucreate a twisting pattern of colors that weaves
through the air inside a 30-foot cube within range.
The pattern appears for a moment and vanishes. Each
creature in the area who sees the pattern must make
a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature
becomes charmed for the duration. While charmed
by this spell, the creature is incapacitated and has
a speed ofO.
The spell ends for an affected creature if it takes any
damage or if someone e1seuses an action to shake the
creature out of its stupor.
ICE STORM
4th-levei evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components: V,5, M(a pinch of dust and a few
drops of water)
Duration: Instantaneous
A hail of rock-hard ice pounds to the ground in a
20-foot-radius, 40-foot-high cylinder centered on a
point within range. Each creature in the cylinder must
make a Dexterity saving throw. Acreature takes 2d8
bludgeoning damage and 4d6 cold damage on a failed
save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
Hailstones turn the storm's area of effect into difficult
terrain until the end ofyour next turno
At Higher Leve/s.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 5th leveIor higher, the bludgeoning damage
increases by ld8 for each slot levei above 4th.
IDENTIFY
1st-levei divination (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Touch
Components: V,5, M (a pearl worth at least 100 gp and
an owl feather)
Duration: Instantaneous
Vouchoose one object that you must touch throughout
the casting of the spe11.If it is a magic item or some
other magic-imbued object, you learn its properties
and how to use them, whether it requires attunement
to use, and how many charges it has, if any. Voulearn
whether any spells are affecting the item and what they
are. lf the item was crealed by a spell, you learn which
spell created it.
lf you instead louch a crealure lhroughoullhe casling,
you learn whal spells, if any, are currenlly affecting i!.
ILLUSORY SCRIPT
1st-levei iIIusion (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 minule
Range: Touch
PART3ISPELLS
Components: 5, M(a lead-based ink worlh alleast 10
gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration: 10days
Vouwrite on parchmenl, paper, or some olher suilable
writing malerial and imbue il wilh a polent illusion lhal
lasls for the duralion.
Toyou and any crealures you designate when you
casllhe spell, the writing appears normal, written in
your hand, and conveys whalever meaning you intended
when you wrole lhe lex!. To ali olhers, lhe writing
appears as if il were written in an unknown ar magical
scripllhal is uninlelligible. Alternalively, you can cause
lhe wriling lo appear to be an entire1ydifferenl message,
written in a differenl hand and language, lhough lhe
language must be one you know.
5hould the spell be dispelled, the original scripl and
the illusion bolh disappear.
Acrealure wilh lruesighl can read the
hidden message.
IMPRISONMENT
9th-levei abjuration
Casting Time: 1 minule
Range: 30 feel
Components: V,5, M (a vellum depiclion or a carved
staluette in lhe likeness of the larget, and a special
componenllhal varies according lo lhe version of lhe
spell you choose, worth at least 500 gp per Hit Die
of lhe target)
Duration: Until dispelled
Voucreate a magical restraint to hold a creature that
you can see within range. The target must succeed on
a Wisdom saving throw or be bound by the spell; if it
succeeds, it is immune lo this spell ifyou cast it again.
While affected by this spell, the creature doesn't need
to breathe, eat, or drink, and it doesn't age. Divination
spells can't locate or perceive the targe!.
When you cast the spell, you choose one of the
following forms of imprisonment.
Buria/.The target is entombed far beneath the earth
in a sphere of magical force that is just large enough to
contain the targe!. Nothing can pass through the sphere,
nor can any creature teleport or use planar traveI to get
into or out of i!.
The special component for this version of the spell is a
small mithral orb.
Chaining.Heavy chains, firmly rooted in the ground,
hold the target in place. The target is restrained until
the spell ends, and it can't move or be moved by any
means until then.
The special component for this version of the spell is a
fine chain of precious metal.
Hedged Prison.The spell transports the target into
a tiny demiplane that is warded against teleportation
and planar traveI. The demiplane can be a labyrinth, a
cage, a tower, or any similar confined structure or area
of your choice.
The special component for this version of the spell is a
miniature representation of the prison made from jade.
Minimus Containment.The target shrinks to a height
of 1 inch and is imprisoned inside a gemstone ar similar
----------------Page (41) Break----------------
object. Light can pass through the gemstone normally
(allowing the target to see out and other creatures to see
in), but nothing else can pass through, even by means of
teleportation or planar traveI. The gemstone can't be cut
or braken while the spell remains in effcct.
The special component for this version of the spell
is a large, transparent gemstone, such as a corundum,
diamond, or ruby.
Slumber.The target falls asleep and can't be awoken.
The speciai component for this version of the spell
consists of rare soporific herbs.
Ending the Spe/l.During the casting of the spell,
in any of its versions, you can specify a condition that
will cause the spell to end and release the target. The
condition can be as specific or as elaborate as you
choose, but the DM must agree that the condition is
reasonable and has a likelihood of coming to passo The
conditions can be based on a creature's name, identity,
or deity but otherwise must be based on observable
actions or qualities and not based on intangibles such as
levei, class, or hit points.
Adispel magicspell can end the spell only if it is cast
as a 9th.level spell, targeting either the prison or the
special component used to create it.
Vou can use a particular special component to create
only one prison at a time. If you cast the spell again
using the same component, the target of the first casting
is immediately freed fram its binding.
INCENDIARY CLOUD
8th.level conjuration
Casting Time: 1action
Range:150 feet
Components:V,S
Duration:Concentration, up to 1 minute
A swirling cloud of smoke shot through with white-hot
embers appears in a 20.foot-radius sphere centered on
a point within range. The cloud spreads around corners
and is heavily obscured. It lasts for the duration or until
a wind of moderate or greater speed (at least 10 miles
per hour) disperses it.
When the cloud appears, each creature in it must
make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes IOd8
/ire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on
a successful one. A creature must also make this saving
throw when it enters the spell's area for the /irst time on
a turn or ends its turn there.
The cloud moves 10 feet directly away from you
in a direction that you choose at the start of each
of your turns.
INFLICT WOUNDS
I st-level necromancy
Casting Time:1 action
Range:Touch
Components:V,S
Duration:Instantaneous
Make a melee spell attack against a creature you can
reach. On a hit, the target takes 3d1O necrotic damage.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd levei or higher, the damage increases by
1d10 for each slot levei above 1sI.
----------------Page (42) Break----------------
251
INSECT PLAGUE
5th-levei conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components: V,S, M(a few grains of sugar, some
kernels of grain, and a smear of fat)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Swarming, biting locusts filla 20-foot-radius sphere
centered on a point you choose within range, The sphere
spreads around corners. The sphere remains for the
duration, and its area is lightly obscured. The sphere's
area is difficult terrain.
When the area appears, each creature in it must
make a Constitution saving throw. Acreature takes
4d 10piercing damage on a failed save, ar half as much
damage on a successful one. A creature must also make
this saving throw when it enters the spell's area for the
first time on a turn ar ends its turn there.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 6th levei ar higher, the damage increases by
Id 10 for each slot levei above 5th.
INVISIBILITY
2nd-leveI ilIusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M(an eyelash encased
in gum arabic)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Acreature you touch becomes invisible until the spell
ends. Anything the target is wearing or carrying is
invisible as long as it is on the target's person. The spell
ends for a target that attacks ar casts a spell.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd levei ar higher, you can target one
additional creature for each slot levei above 2nd.
jUMP
1st-levei transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M(a grasshopper's hind leg)
Duration: 1 minute
Voutouch a creature. The creature's jump distance is
tripled until the spell ends.
KNOCK
2nd-levei transmutation
Casting Time: 1action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Choose an object that you can see within range. The
object can be a door, a box, a chest, a set of manacles, a
padlock, ar another object that contains a mundane or
magical means that prevents access.
A target that is held shut bya mundane lock ar that
is stuck or barred becomes unlocked, unstuck, or
PART 3ISPELLS
unbarred. lf the object has multiple locks, only one of
them is unlocked.
lf you choose a target that is held shut witharcane
lock,that spell is suppressed for 10 minutes, during
which time the target can be opened and shut normally.
When you cast the spell, a loud knock, audible from as
far away as 300 feet, emanates from the target objecl.
LEGEND LORE
5th-levei divination
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Self
Components: V,S, M (incense worth at least 250 gp,
which the spell consumes, and four ivory strips worth
at least 50 gp each)
Duration: Instantaneous
Name or describe a person, place, or object. The spell
brings to your mind a brief summary of the significant
lore about the thing you named. The lore might consist
of current tales, forgotten stories, or even secret lore
that has never been widely known. lf the thing you
named isn't of legendary importance, you gain no
information. The more information you already have
about the thing, the more precise and detailed the
information you receive is.
The information you learn is accurate but might be
couched in figurative language. For example, ifyou
have a mysterious magic axe on hand, the spell might
yield this information: "Woe to the evildoer whose hand
touches the axe, for even the haft slices the hand of the
evil ones. Only a true Child of Stone, lover and beloved
of Moradin, may awaken the true powers of the axe, and
only with the sacred wordRudnoggon the lips."
LEOMUND'S SECRET CHEST
4th-leveI conjuration
Casting Time: 1action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M (an exquisite chest, 3 feet by 2 feet
by 2 feet, constructed from rare materiaIs worth at
least 5,000 gp, and a Tiny replica made from the same
materiais worth at least 50 gp)
Duration: Instantaneous
Vouhide a chest, and ali its contents, on the Ethereal
Plane. Voumust touch the chest and the miniature
replica that serves as a material component for the spell.
The chest can contain up to 12 cubic feet of nonliving
material (3 feet by 2 feet by 2 feet).
While the chest remains on the Ethereal Plane, you
can use an action and touch the replica to recall the
chesl. lt appears in an unoccupied space on the ground
within 5 feet of you. Voucan send the chest back to the
Ethereal Plane by using an action and touching both the
chest and the replica.
After 60 days, there is a cumulative 5 percent chance
per day that the spell's effect ends. This effect ends if
you cast this spell again, if the smaller replica chest is
destroyed, ar ifyou choose to end the spell as an action.
If the spell ends and the larger chest is on the Ethereal
Plane, it is irretrievably losl.
----------------Page (43) Break----------------
LEOMUNO'S TINY HUT
3rd-/evel evocation (ritual)
Casting Time: I minute
Range: Self (IO-foot-radius hemisphere)
Components: V,S, M (a small crystal bead)
Duration: 8 hours
A IO-foot-radius immobile dome of force springs into
existenee around and above you and remains stationary
for the duration. The spell ends ifyou leave its area.
Nine creatures of Medium size or smaller ean fit inside
the dome with you. The spell fails if its area includes a
larger ereature or more than nine ereatures. Creatures
and objeets within the dome when you east this spell
ean move through it freely. Ali other ereatures and
objeets are barred from passing through it. Spells and
other magical effeets ean't extend through the dome or
be east through it. The atmosphere inside the spaee is
eomfortable and dry, regardless of the weather outside.
Until the spell ends, you ean eommand the interior to
beeome dimly lit or dark. The dome is opaque from the
outside, of any eolor you ehoose, but it is transparent
from the inside.
LESSER RESTORATION
2nd-leveI abjuration
Casting Time: I aetion
Range: Toueh
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou toueh a ereature and ean end either one disease or
one eondition afflieting it. The eondition ean be blinded,
deafened, paralyzed, or poisoned.
LEVITATE
2nd-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: I aetion
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S, M (either a small leather loop or a
pieee of golden wire bent into a eup shape with a long
shank on one end)
Duration: Coneentration, up to 10 minutes
One ereature or object of your ehoice that you ean see
within range rises vertieally, up to 20 feet, and remains
suspended there for the duration. The spell ean levitate
a target that weighs up to 500 pounds. An unwilling
ereature that sueeeeds on a Constitution saving throw
is unaffected.
The target ean move only by pushing or pulling
against a fixed objeet or surfaee within reaeh (sueh as
a wall or a eeiling), whieh allows it to move as if it were
climbing. Vou ean ehange the target's altitude by up to
20 feet in either direetion on your turno lf you are the
target, you ean move up or down as part of your move.
Otherwise, you can use your aetion to move the target,
whieh must remain within the spelI's range.
When the spell ends, the target lIoats gently to the
ground if it is still aloft.
LIGHT
Evocation cantrip
Casting Time: I aetion
Range: Toueh
Components: V,M (a firelly or phosphorescent moss)
Duration: I hour
Vou touch one objeet that is no larger than lO feet in any
dimensiono Until the spell ends, the objeet sheds bright
light in a 20-foot radius and dim light for an additional
20 feet. The light ean be eolored as you like. Completely
eovering the objeet with something opaque bloeks the
light. The spell ends ifyou east it again or dismiss it
as an aetion.
lf you target an objeet held or worn by a hostile
creature, that ereature must sueeeed on a Dexterity
saving throw to avoid the spell.
LIGHTNING ARROW
3rd-/evel transmutation
Casting Time: I bonus aetion
Range: Sei f
Components: V,S
Duration: Coneentration, up to I minute
The next time you make a ranged weapon attaek during
the spell's duration, the weapon's ammunition, or the
weapon itself if it's a thrown weapon, transforms into
a bolt of lightning. Make the attaek roll as normal. The
target takes 4d8 Iightning damage on a hit, or half
as mueh damage on a miss, instead of the weapon's
normal damage.
Whether you hit or miss, eaeh ereature within 10 feet
of the target must make a Dexterity saving throw. Eaeh
of these ereatures takes 2d8 lightning damage on a
failed save, or half as mueh damage on a sueeessful one.
The pieee of ammunition or weapon then returns to
its normal form.
At Higher Leve/s.When you east this spell using a
spell slot of 4th levei or higher, the damage for both
effeets of the spell inereases by Id8 for eaeh slot
leveI above 3rd.
LIGHTNING  BOLT
3rd-/evel evoeation
Casting Time: I aetion
Range: Self (lOO-foot line)
Components: V,S, M (a bit of fur and a rod of amber,
erystal, or glass)
Duration: [nstantaneous
A stroke of Iightning forming a line 100 feet long and 5
feet wide blasts out from you in a direetion you ehoose.
Eaeh ereature in the line must make a Dexterity saving
throw. A ereature takes 8d6 lightning damage on a
failed save, or half as mueh damage on a sueeessful one.
The lightning ignites lIammable objeets in the area
that aren't being worn or earried.
At Higher Leve/s.When you east this spell using a
spell slot of 4th leveI or higher, the damage inereases by
Id6 for eaeh slot levei above 3rd.
PART 3  SPELLS255
----------------Page (44) Break----------------
LOCATE ANIMALS OR PLANTS
2nd-leveI divinatian (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V,S, M (a bitaffur from a bloodhound)
Duration: Instantaneous
Describe ar name a specific kind of beast ar plant.
Concentrating on the voice of nature in your
surroundings, you learn the direction and distance to
the closest creature or plant of that kind within 5 miles,
if any are present.
LOCATE CREATURE
4th-leveI divination
Casting Time: 1action
Range: Self
Components: V,S, M(a bit of furframa bloodhound)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Describe ar name a creature that is familiar to you. Vou
sense the direction to the creature's lacation, as long as
that creature is within 1,000 feet ofyou.lfthe creature
is moving, you know the direction of its mavement.
The spell can locate a specific creature known to
you, ar the nearest creature of a specific kind (such as
a human ar a unicorn),50long as you have seen such a
creature up close-within 30 feet-at least once. If the
creature you described ar named is in a different form,
such as being under the effects of apalymarphspell,
this spell doesn't locate the creature.
This spel1can't locate a creature if running water at
least 10 feet wide blocks a direct path between you and
the creature.
LOCATE OBJECT
2nd-leveI divinatian
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V,S, M(a farked twig)
Duration: Cancentration, upto10 minutes
Describearname an object that is familiar to you. Vou
sense the direction to the object's location, as lang as
that object is within 1,000 feet af you. If the object is in
motion,yauknow the direction of its movement.
The spell can locate a specific object known toyou,
as long as you have seen it up close-within 30 feet-at
least once, Alternatively, the spel1can locate the nearest
abjectof a particular kind, such as a certain kind of
apparel, jewelry, furniture, tool, ar weapon.
This spel1can't locate an object if any thickness of
lead, even a thin sheet, blocks a direct path between you
and the object.
LONGSTRIDER
1st-leveI transmutatian
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M(a pinch of dirt)
Duration: 1 hour
Voutouch a creature. The target's speed increases by 10
feet until the spel1ends.
PART 3ISPELLS
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spel1using
a spell slot of 2nd levei ar higher, you can target one
additional creature for each slot leveIabove 1st.
MAGEARMOR
1st-leveI abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M (a piece of cured leather)
Duration: 8 hours
Vou touch a willing creature who isn't wearing armor,
and a pratective magical force surrounds it until the
spel1ends. The target's base ACbecomes 13+its
Dexterity modifier. The spel1ends if the target dons
armar ar ifyou dismiss the spell as an action.
MAGE HAND
Conjuration cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: 1 minute
A spectral, floating hand appears at a point you choose
within range. The hand lasts for the duration ar until
you dismiss it as an action. The hand vanishes if it is
ever more than 30 feet away from youarifyou cast
this spel1again.
Voucan use your action to contraI the hand. Voucan
use the hand to manipulate an object, open an unlocked
doar ar container, stow or retrieve an item from an open
container, ar pau r the contents out of a via!' Voucan
move the hand up to 30 feet each time you use it.
The hand can't atlack, activate magic items,arcarry
more than 10pounds.
MAGIC CIRCLE
3rd-Ievel abjuratian
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 10 feet
Components: V,S, M (holywater ar powdered
silver and iron worth at least 100 gp, which the
spel1consumes)
Duration: 1hour
Voucreate a 10-foot-radius, 20-foot-tal1cylinder of
magical energy centered on a point on the ground
that you can see within range. Glowing runes appear
wherever the cylinder intersects with the lIoor ar
other surface.
Choose onearmore of the following types of
creatures: celestiaIs, elementals, fey,fiends, ar undead.
The circle affects a creature of the chosen type in the
fol1owingways:
The creature can't willingly enter the cylinder by
nonmagical means. If the creature tries to use tele-
portation ar interplanar traveI to do so, it must first
succeed on a Charisma saving throw.
The creature has disadvantage on attack ral1s against
targets within the cylinder.
Targets within the cylinder can't be charmed, fright-
ened,arpossessed by the creature.
----------------Page (45) Break----------------
When you cast this spell, you can elect to cause its
magic to opera te in the reverse direction, preventing a
creature of the specified type from leaving the cylinder
and protecting targets outside it.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th leveIor higher, the duration increases by
1 hour for each slot levei above 3rd.
MAGICJAR
6th./evel necromancy
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Self
Components: V,S, M (a gem, crystal, reliquary, or some
other ornamental container worth at least 500 gp)
Duration: Until dispelled
Your body falls into a catatonic state as your soulleaves
it and enters the container you used for the spell's
material component. While your soul inhabits the
container, you are aware of your surroundings as ifyou
were in the container's space. Voucan't move or use
reactions. The only action you can take is to project your
soul up to 100 feet out of the container, either returning
to your living body (and ending the spell) or attempting
to possess a humanoids body.
Voucan attempt to possess any humanoid within
100 feet ofyou that you can see (creatures warded by a
protection[romevil and goodormagic circIespell can't
be possessed). The target must make a Charisma saving
throw. On a failure, your soul moves into the target's
body, and the target's soul becomes trapped in the
container. On a success, the target resists your efforts
to possess it, and you can't attempt to possess it again
for 24 hours.
Once you possess a creature's body,you control it.
Your game statistics are replaced by the statistics of the
creature, though you retain your alignment and your
Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores. Vouretain
the benefit ofyour own class features.Irthe target has
any class leveis, you can't use any of its class features.
Meanwhile, the possessed creature's soul can
perceive from the container using its own senses, but it
can't move or take actions at ali.
While possessing a body,you can use your action to
return from the host body to the container if it is within
100 feet of you, returning the host creature's soul to
its body. If the host body dies while you're in it, the
creature dies, and you must make a Charisma saving
throw against your own spellcasting DC. On a success,
you return to the container if it is within 100 feet ofyou.
Otherwise, you die.
If the container is destroyed or the spell ends, your
soul immediately returns to your body. Ifyour body is
more than 100 feet away from you or ifyour body is
dead when you attempt to return to it, you die.Iranother
creature's soul is in the container when it is destroyed,
the creature's soul returns to its body if the body is alive
and within 100 feet. Otherwise, that creature dies.
When the spell ends, the container is destroyed.
MAGIC MISSILE
Ist./evel evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
Voucreate three glowing darts of magical force. Each
dart hits a creature ofyour choice that you can see
within range. Adart deals Id4 + I force damage to its
target. The darts ali strike simultaneously, and you can
direct them to hit one creature or severa!.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd levei or higher, the spell creates one
more dart for each slot leveIabove 1st.
MAGIC MOUTH
2nd./evel iI1usion (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S, M(a small bit of honeycomb
and jade dust worth at least 10gp, which the
spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
Vouimplant a message within an object in range, a
message that is uttered when a trigger condition is met.
Choose an object that you can see and that isn't being
worn or carried byanother creature. Then speak the
message, which must be 25 words or less, though it
can be delivered over as long as 10minutes. Finally,
determine the circumstance that will trigger the spell to
deliver your message.
When that circumstance occurs, a magical mouth
appears on the object and recites the message in your
voice and at the same volume you spoke.Irthe object
you chose has a mouth or something that looks like a
mouth (for example, the mouth of a statue), the magical
mouth appears there so that the words appear to come
from the object's mouth. When you cast this spell, you
can have the spell end after it delivers its message, or
it can remain and repeat its message whenever the
trigger occurs.
The triggering circumstance can be as general or as
detailed as you like, though it must be based on visual
or audible conditions that occur within 30 feet of the
object. For example, you could instruct the mouth to
speak when any creature moves within 30 feet of the
object or when a silver bell rings within 30 feet of it.
MAGIC WEAPON
2nd./evel transmutation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Voutouch a nonmagical weapon. Until the spell ends,
that weapon becomes a magic weapon with a +1 bonus
to attack rolls and damage rolls.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th levei or higher, the bonus increases to
+2. When you use a spell slot of 6th leveIor higher, the
bonus increases to +3.
PART 3ISPELLS257
----------------Page (46) Break----------------
-
MAJOR IMAGE
3rd-Ievel illusion
Casting Time: I action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S, M(a bit of f1eece)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10minutes
Voucreate the image of an object, a creature, ar some
other visible phenomenon that is no larger than a
20.foot cube. The image appears at a spot that you
can see within range and lasts for the duration. lt
seems completely real, including sounds, smells, and
temperature appropriate to the thing depicted. Vou
can't create sufficient heat or cold to cause damage, a
sound loud enough to deal thunder damage or deafen a
creature, or a smell that might sicken a creature (like a
troglodyte's stench).
As long as you are within range of the illusion, you
can use your action to cause the image to move to
any other spot within range. As the image changes
location, you can alter its appearance so that its
movements appear natural for the image. For example,
ifyou create an image of a creature and move it, you
can alter the image so that it appears to be walking.
Similarly, you can cause the illusion to make different
sounds at different times, even making it carry on a
conversation, for example.
Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be an
iIlusion, because things can pass through it. Acreature
that uses its action to examine the image can determine
that it is an iIlusion with a successfullntelligence
(Investigation) check against your spell saveDe.lf a
creature discerns the illusion for what it is, the creature
can see through the image, and its other sensory
qualities become faint to the creature.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th leveIor higher, the spelllasts until
dispelled, without requiring your concentration.
MASS CURE WOUNDS
5th.level conjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
Awave of healing energy washes out from a point of
your choice within range. Choose up to six creatures
in a 30.foot.radius sphere centered on that point. Each
target regains hit points equal to 3d8+your spellcasting
ability modifier. This spell has no effect on undead
or constructs.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 6th levei or higher, the healing increases by
Id8 for each slot levei above 5th.
MASS HEAL
9th./evel conjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: lnstantaneous
PART 3ISPELLS
Af100dof healing energy f10wsfrom you into injured
creatures around you. Vourestore up to 700 hit points,
divided as you choose among any number of creatures
that you can see within range. Creatures healed by
this spell are also cured of ali diseases and any effect
making them blinded or deafened. This spell has no
effect on undead or constructs.
MASS HEALING WORD
3rd.level evocation
Casting Time: I bonus action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
As you call out words of restoration, up to six creatures
ofyour choice that you can see within range regain hit
points equal to Id4+your spellcasting ability modifier.
This spell has no effect on undead or constructs.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th leveIor higher, the healing increases by
Id4 for each slot levei above 3rd.
MASS SUGGESTION
6th./evel enchantment
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,M (a snake's tongue and either a bit of
honeycomb or a drop of sweet oil)
Duration: 24 hours
Vousuggest a course of activity (limited to a sentence
or two) and magically influence up to twelve creatures
ofyour choice that you can see within range and that
can hear and understand you. Creatures that can't be
charmed are immune to this effect. The suggestion must
be worded in suchamanner as to make the course of
action sound reasonable. Asking the creature to stab
itself, throw itself onto a spear, immolate itself, or do
some other obviously harmful act automatically negates
the effect of the spell.
Each target must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a
failed save, it pursues the course of action you described
to the best of its ability. The suggested course of action
can continue for the entire duration. If the suggested
activity can be completed in a shorter time, the spell
ends when the subject finishes what it was asked to do.
Voucan also specify conditions that will trigger a
special activity during the duration. For example, you
might suggest that a group of soldiers give ali their
money to the first beggar they meet. If the condition isn't
met before the spell ends, the activity isn't performed.
lf you or any ofyour companions damage a creature
affected by this spell, the spell ends for that creature.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using
a 7th.leveIspell slot, the duration is 10days. When
you use an 8th.level spell slot, the duration is 30 days.
When you use a 9th.level spell slot, the duration is a
year and a day.
MAZE
8th./eveI conjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
----------------Page (47) Break----------------
Components:V,S
Duration:Concentration, up to\Ominutes
Vou banish a creature that you can see within range into
a labyrinthine demiplane. The target remains there for
the duration or until it escapes the maze.
The target can use its action to altempt to escape.
When it does so, it makes a DC 20 Intelligence check. If
it succeeds, it escapes, and lhe spell ends (a minotallr or
goristro demon automatically succeeds).
When the spell ends, the target reappears in the
space it left or, if that space is occupied, in the nearest
unoccupied space.
MELD INTO STONE
3rd-/evel transmutation  (ritual)
Casting Time:1 action
Range:Touch
Components:V,S
Duration:8 hours
Vou step into a stone object or surface large enough to
fully containyourbody, melding yourself and ali the
equipment you carry with the stone for the dllration.
Using your movement, you step into the stone at a point
you can touch. Nothing of your presence remains visible
or otherwise detectable by nonmagical senses.
While merged with the stone, you can't see what
occurs outside it, and any Wisdom (Perception) checks
you make to hear sounds outside it are made with
disadvantage. Vou remain aware of the passage of
time and can cast spells on yourself while merged in
the stone. Vou can use your movement to leave the
stone where you entered it, which ends the spell. Vou
otherwise can't move.
Minor physical damage to the stone doesn't harm
you, but its partial destruction or a change in its shape
(to the extent that YOllno longer fit within it) expels YOll
and deals 6d6 bludgeoning damage to YOll.The stone's
complete destruction (or transmutation into a different
sllbstance) expels YOlland deals 50 bludgeoning damage
to you. If expelled, you fali prone in an lInoccupied space
cIosest to where you first entered.
MELF'S ACID ARROW
2nd-levei evocation
Casting Time:1 action
Range:90 feet
Components:V,S, M (powdered rhubarb leaf and an
adder's stomach)
Duration:1nstantaneous
A shimmering green arrow streaks toward a targel
within range and bllrsts in a spray of acid. Make a
ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the
target takes 4d4 acid damage immediately and 2d4 acid
damage aI the end of its next turno On a miss, the arrow
splashes the target with acid for half as much of the
initial damage and no damage at the end of its next turno
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spellllsing a
spell slot of 3rd levei or higher, lhe damage (both initial
and later) increases by 1d4 for each slot levei above 2nd.
MENDING
Transmutation  cantrip
Casting Time:1 minute
Range:Touch
Components:V.S, M (two lodestones)
Duration:Instantaneous
This spell repairs a single break or tear in an object
you touch, such as a broken chain link. two halves of
a broken key, a torn c1oak, or a leaking wineskin. As
long as the break or tear is no larger than 1 foot in
any dimension, you mend it. leaving no trace of the
former damage.
This spell can physically repair a magic item
or construct, but the spell can't restore magic to
such an object.
MESSAGE
Transmutation  cantrip
Casting Time:1 action
Range:120 feet
Components:V,S, M (a short piece of copper wire)
Duration:I round
Vou point your finger toward a creature within range
and whisper a message. The target (and only the target)
hears the message and can reply in a whisper that only
you can hear.
Vou can cast this spell through solid objects ifyou
are familiar with the target and know it is beyond
the barrier. Magical silence, 1 foot of stone, 1 inch of
common metal, a thin sheet of lead, or 3 feet of wood
blocks the spell. The spell doesn't have to follow a
straight line and can travei freely around corners or
throllgh openings.
METEOR SWARM
9th-levei evocation
Casting Time:I action
Range:1 mile
Components:V,S
Duration:Instantaneous
Blazing orbs of fire plummet to the ground at four
different points YOllcan see within range. Each creature
in a 40-foot-radius sphere centered on each point you
choose must make a Dexterity saving throw. The sphere
spreads around corners. A creature takes 20d6 fire
damage and 20d6 bludgeoning damage on a failed
save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A
creature in lhe area of more than one fiery burst is
affected only once.
The spell damages objects in the area and ignites
flammable objects that aren't being worn or carried.
MIND BLANK
8th-levei abjuration
Casting Time:1 action
Range:Touch
Components:V,S
Duration:24 hOllrs
Unti! the spell ends, one willing creatllre you tOllch is
immune to psychic damage, any effect lhat would sense
PART 3ISPELLS259
----------------Page (48) Break----------------
260
-
its emotions or read its thoughts, divination spells, and
the charmed condition. The spell even foilswishspells
and spells or effects of similar power used to affect the
target's mind or to gain information about the target.
MINOR ILLUSION
lIlusion cantrip
Casting Time: 1action
Range: 30 feet
Components: 5, M(a bit of fleece)
Duration: 1 minute
Voucreate a sound or an image of an object within
range that lasts for the duration. The illusion also ends if
you dismiss it as an action or cast this spell again.
lf you create a sound, its volume can range from a
whisper to a scream. It can be your voice, someone
else's voice, a lion's roar, a beating of drums, or any
other sound you choose. The sound continues unabated
throughout the duration, or you can make discrete
sounds at different times before the spell ends.
lf you create an image of an object-such as a chair,
muddy footprints, or a small chest-it must be no larger
than a 5-foot cube. The image can't create sound, light,
smell, or any other sensory effect. Physical interaction
with the image reveals it to be an illusion, because
things can pass through it.
lf a creature uses its action to examine the sound or
image, the creature can determine that it is an illusion
with a successful Intelligence (Investigation) check
against your spell save De. Ifa creature discerns the
illusion for what it is, the illusion becomes faint to
the creature.
MIRAGE ARCANE
7th-levei illusion
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 5ight
Components: V,5
Duration: 10 days
Voumake terrain in an area up to 1mile square
look, sound, smell, and even feellike some other sort
of terrain. The terrain's general shape remains the
same, however. Open fields or a road could be made to
resemble a swamp, hill, crevasse, or some other difficult
or impassable terrain. Apond can be made to seem like
a grassy meadow, a precipice like a gentle slope, or a
rock-strewn gully like a wide and smooth road.
5imilarly, you can alter the appearance of structures,
or add them where none are present. The spell doesn't
disguise, conceal, or add creatures.
The illusion includes audible, visual, tactile, and
olfactory elements, so it can turn clear ground into
difficult terrain (or vice versa) or otherwise impede
movement through the area. Any piece of the illusory
terrain (such as a rock or stick) that is removed from the
spell's area disappears immediately.
Creatures with truesight can see through the illusion
to the terrain's true form; however, ali other elements
of the illusion remain, so while the creature is aware of
PART 3ISPELLS
the illusion's presence, the creature can still physically
interact with the illusion.
MIRROR IMAGE
2nd-levei illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 5elf
Components: V,5
Duration: 1 minute
Three illusory duplicates ofyourself appear in your
space. Until the spell ends, the duplicates move with
you and mimic your actions, shifting position so it's
impossible to track which image is real. Voucan use
your action to dismiss the illusory duplicates.
Each time a creature targets you with an attack during
the spell's duration, roll a d20 to determine whether the
attack instead targets one ofyour duplicates.
lf you have three duplicates, you must roll a 6 or
higher to change the attack's target to a duplicate. With
two duplicates, you must roll an 8 or higher. With one
duplicate, you must roll an 11or higher.
A duplicate's ACequals 10+your Dexterity modifier.
Ifan attack hits a duplicate, the duplicate is destroyed. A
duplicate can be destroyed only by an attack that hits it.
It ignores ali other damage and effects. The spell ends
when ali three duplicates are destroyed.
Acreature is unaffected by this spell if it can't see, if it
relies on senses other than sight, such as blindsight, or
if it can perceive illusions as false, as with truesight.
MISLEAD
5th-levei illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 5elf
Components: 5
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Voubecome invisible at the same time that an illusory
double of you appears where you are standing. The
double lasts for the duration, but the invisibility ends if
you attack or cast a spell.
Voucan use your action to move your illusory double
up to twice your speed and make it gesture, speak, and
behave in whatever way you choose.
Voucan see through its eyes and hear through its ears
as ifyou were located where it is. On each ofyour turns
as a bonus action, you can switch from using its senses
to using your own, or back again. While you are using its
senses, you are blinded and deafened in regard to your
own surroundings.
MISTY STEP
2nd-levei conjuration
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 5elf
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Briefly surrounded bysilvery mist, you teleport up to 30
feet to an unoccupied space that you can see.
----------------Page (49) Break----------------
MODIFY MEMORY
5th-leveI enehantment
Casting Time:I aetion
Range:30 feet
Components:V, 5
Duration:Coneentration, up to I minute
Vou attempt to reshape another ereature's memories.
One ereature that you ean see must make a Wisdom
saving throw. Ifyou are fighting the ereature, it has
advantage on the saving throw. On a failed save, the
target beeomes eharmed by you for the duration. The
eharmed target is ineapacitated and unaware of its
surroundings, though it ean still hear you. If it takes any
damage or is targeted by another spell, this spell ends,
and none of the target's memories are modified.
While this eharm lasts, you ean affeet the target's
memory of an event that it experieneed within the last
24 hours and that lasted no more than 10 minutes. Vou
ean permanently eliminate ali memory of the event,
allow the target to reeall the event with perfeet c!arity
and exaeting detail, ehange its memory of the details of
the event, or ereate a memory of some other event.
Vou must speak to the target to deseribe how
its memories are affeeted, and it must be able to
understand your language for the modified memories to
take root. Its mind fills in any gaps in the details of your
description. If the spell ends before you have finished
describing the modified memories, the creature's
memory isn't altered. Otherwise, the modified memories
take hold when the spell ends.
A modified memory doesn't neeessarily affect how a
creature behaves, particularly if the memory contradicts
the creature's natural inc!inations, alignment, or beliefs.
An illogical modified memory, such as implanting a
memory of how much the creature enjoyed dousing
itself in acid, is dismissed, perhaps as a bad dream. The
DM might deem a modified memory toa nonsensical to
affect a creature in a significant manner.
Aremove eurseorgreater restorationspell cast on the
target restores the creature's true memory.
At Higher LeveIs.Ifyou east this spell using a spell
slot of 6th leveI or higher, you can alter the target's
memories of an event that took place up to 7 days ago
(6th levei), 30 days ago (7th levei), I year ago (8th levei),
or any time in the creature's past (9th levei).
MOONBEAM
2nd-leveI evoeation
Casting Time:I action
Range:120 feet
Components:V,5, M (severa Iseeds of any moonseed
plant and a pieee of opaleseent feldspar)
Duration:Concentration, up to 1 minute
A silvery beam of pale light shines down in a 5-foot-
radius, 40-foot-high cylinder centered on a point within
range. Until the spell ends, dim light fills the cylinder.
When a creature enters the spell's area for the first
time on aturo or starts its turo there, it is engulfed
inghostly liames that cause searing pain, and it must
make a Constitution saving throw. It takes 2dlO radiant
damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a
successfu I one.
A shapechanger makes its saving throw with
disadvantage.Irit fails, it also instantly reverts to its
original form and can't assume a different form until it
leaves the spell's light.
On each of your turos after you cast this spell, you can
use an action to move the beam 60 feet in any direction.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd levei or higher, the damage increases by
ldlO for each slot leveI above 2nd.
MORDENKAINEN'S  FAITHFUL HOUND
4th-leveI eorijuration
Casting Time:I action
Range:30 feet
Components:V,5, M (a tiny silver whistle, a pieee of
bone, and a thread)
Duration:8 hours
Vou conjure a phantom watchdog in an unoccupied
space that you can see within range, where it remains
for the duration, until you disrniss it as an action, or until
you move more than 100 feet away from it.
The hound is invisible to ali creatures except you
and can't be harmed. When a 5mall or larger creature
comes within 30 feet of it without first speaking the
password that you specify when you cast this spell, the
hound starts barking loudly. The hound sees invisible
creatures and can see into the Ethereal Plane. It
ignores illusions.
At the start of each of your turos, the hound attempts
to bite one creature within 5 feet of it that is hostile
to you. The hound's attack bonus is equal to your
spellcasting ability modifier+your proficiency bonus.
On a hit, it deals 4d8 piercing damage.
MORDENKAINEN'S  MAGNIFICENT  MANSION
7th-leveI eonjuration
Casting Time:I minute
Range:300 feet
Components:V,5, M (a miniature portal carved from
ivory, a small piece of polished marble, and a tiny
silver spoon, each item worth at least 5 gp)
Duration:24 hours
Vou conjure an extradimensional dwelling in range
that lasts for the duration. Vou choose where its one
entrance is located. The entrance shimmers faintly
and is 5 feet wide and 10 feet tall. Vou and any creature
you designate when you cast the spell can enter the
extradimensional dwelling as long as the portal remains
open. Vou can open or c!ose the portal if you are within
30 feet of it. While c!osed, the portal is invisible.
Beyond the portal is a rnagnificent foyer with
numerous ehambers beyond. The atmosphere is c!ean,
fresh, and warm.
Vou can create any 1I00rplan you like, but the space
can't exceed 50 cubes, each cube being 10 feet on
each side. The place is furoished and decorated as
you choose. lt contains sufficient food to serve a nine-
course banquet for up to 100 people. A staff of 100
near-transparent  servants attends ali who enter. Vou
PART 3   SPELLS261
----------------Page (50) Break----------------
PA RT 3ISPELLS
decide the visual appearance of these servants and their
attire. They are completely obedient to your orders.
Each servant can perform any task a normal human
servant could perform, but they can't attack or take
any action that would directly harm another creature.
Thus the servants can fetch things, clean, mend, fold
clothes. light tires. serve food, pour wine, and so on.
The servants can go anywhere in the mansion but
can't leave it. Furnishings and other objects created
by this spell dissipate into smoke if removed from the
mansion. When the spell ends, any creatures inside
the extradimensional space are expelled into the open
spaces nearest to the entrance.
MORDENKAINEN'S  PRIVATE SANCTUM
4th.level abjuration
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S, M (a thin sheet of lead, a piece
of opaque glass. a wad of cotton or cloth, and
powdered chrysolite)
Duration: 24 hours
Vou make an area within range magically secure. The
area is a cube that can be as small as 5 feet to as large
as 100 feel on each side. The spelllasts for the duralion
or unlil you use an aclion to dismiss it.
When you cast the spell, you decide whal sorl of
securily the spell provides, choosing any or ali of the
following properties:
Sound can't pass through lhe barrier aI the edge of
the warded area.
The barrier of the warded area appears dark and foggy,
preventing vision (including darkvision) through il.
Sensors created by divinalion spells can't appear
inside the protected area or pass through the barrier
aI ils peri meter.
Creatures in the area can't be targeted by divinalion
spells.
Nothing can teleport into or oul of lhe warded area.
Planar traveI is blocked within the warded area.
Casling this spell on the same spot every day for a
year makes this effect permanent.
At Higher Leve/s.When you cast this spell using a
spell slol of 5th levei or higher, you can increase the size
of the cube by 100 feet for each slot leveI beyond 4th.
Thus you could protect a cube that can be up lO200 feet
on one side by using a spell slot of 5th leveI.
MORDENKAINEN'S  SWORD
7th-Je.-elevocalion
Casting Time: 1 aclion
Range: 60 feet
Componenls: V.5,M (a minialure platinum sword wilh
a grip and pommel of copper and zinc, worth 250 gp)
Duration: Concentralion, up to 1 minute
Vou create a sword-shaped plane of force that hovers
within range. It lasts for the duration.
When the sword appears, you make a melee spell
attack against a targel ofyour choice within 5 feet ofthe
sword. On a hit. the target takes 3d 10 force damage.
----------------Page (51) Break----------------
Until the spell ends, you can use a bonus action on each
of your turns to move the sword up to 20 feet to a spot
you can see and repeat this attack against the same
target or a different one.
MOVE EARTH
6th-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S, M (an iron blade and a small bag
containing a mixture of soils-c1ay, loam, and sand)
Duration: Concentration, up to 2 hours
Choose an area of terrain no larger than 40 feet on a
side within range. Vou can reshape dirt, sand, or c1ay
in the area in any manner you choose for the duration.
Vou can raise or lower the area's e1evation, create or fill
in a trench, erect or f1atten a wall, or form a pillar. The
extent of any such changes can't exceed half the area's
largest dimensiono So, if you affect a 40-foot square,
you can create a pillar up to 20 feet high, raise or lower
the square's e1evation by up to 20 feet, dig a trench up
to 20 feet deep, and so on. It takes 10 minutes for these
changes to complete.
At the end of every 10 minutes you spend
concentrating on the spell, you can choose a new area of
terrain to affecl.
Because the terrain's transformation occurs slowly,
creatures in the area can't usually be trapped or injured
by the ground's movemenl.
This spell can't manipulate natural stone or
stone construction. Rocks and structures shift to
accommodate the new terrain.Irthe way you shape
the terrain would make a structure unstable, it
might collapse.
Similarly, this spell doesn't directly affect plant
growth. The moved earth carries any plants along with il.
NONDETECTlON
3rd-Ievel abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M (a pinch of diamond dust
worth 25 gp sprinkled over the target, which the
spell consumes)
Duration: 8 hours
For the duration, you hide a target that you touch
from divination magic. The target can be a willing
creature or a place or an object no larger than 10
feet in any dimensiono The target can't be targeted by
any divination magic or perceived through magical
scrying sensors.
NYSTUL'S MAGIC AURA
2nd-leveI illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M (a small square of silk)
Duration: 24 hours
Vou place an illusion on a creature or an object
you touch so that divination spells reveal false
information about il. The target can be a willing
creature or an object that isn't being carried or worn by
another creature.
When you cast the spell, choose one or both of the
following effects. The effect lasts for the duration.Iryou
cast this spell on the same creature or object every day
for 30 days, placing the same effect on It each time, the
illusion lasts until it is dispelled.
False Aura.Vou change the way the target appears
to spells and magical effects, such asdetect magic,
that detect magical auras. Vou can make a nonmagical
object appear magical, a magical object appear
nonmagical, or change the object's magical aura so that
it appears to belong to a specific school of magic that
you choose. When you use lhis effect on an object, you
can make the false magic apparent to any creature that
handles the item.
Mask.Vou change the way the target appears to spells
and magical effects that detect creature types, such as a
paladin's Divine Sense or the trigger of asymbolspe11.
Vou choose a creature type and other spells and magical
effects treat the target as if it were a creature of that
type or of that alignmenl.
OTlLUKE'S FREEZING SPHERE
6th-leveI evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components: V,S, M (a small crystal sphere)
Duration: Instantaneous
A frigid globe of cold energy streaks from your fingertips
to a point of your choice within range, where it explodes
in a 60-foot-radius sphere. Each creature within the
area must make a Constitution saving throw. On a
failed save, a creature takes IOd6 cold damage. On a
successful save, it takes half as much damage.
Irthe globe strikes a body of water or a liquid that is
principally water (not inc1uding water-based creatures),
it freezes the liquid to a depth of 6 inches over an area
30 feet square. This ice lasts for I minute. Creatures
that were swimming on the surface of frozen water are
trapped in the ice. A trapped creature can use an action
to make a Strength check against your spell save DC
to brea k free.
Vou can refrain from firing the globe after completing
lhe spcll, ifyou wish. A small globe about the size of
a sling stone, cool to the touch, appears in your hand.
At any time, you or a creature you give the globe to
can throw the globe (to a range of 40 feet) or hurl it
with a sling (to the sling's normal range). It shatlers
on impact, with lhe same effect as the normal casting
of the spell. Vou can also set the globe down without
shattering il. After 1 minute, if the globe hasn't already
shattered, it explodes.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 7th levei or higher, lhe damage increases by
ld6 for each slot levei above 6th.
?ART3S?ELLS
----------------Page (52) Break----------------
OTILUKE'S  RESILIENT  SPHERE
4th-levei evocation
Casting Time: I action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S, M(a hemispherical piece of
clear crystal and a matching hemispherical piece
of gum arabic)
Duration: Concentration. up to I minute
Asphere of shimmering force encloses a creature
ar object of Large size ar smaller within range. An
unwilling creature must make a Dexterity saving
throw. On a failed save. the creature is enclosed for
the duration.
Nothing-not physical objects. energy. ar other spell
effects-can pass through the barrier. in ar out. though
a creature in the sphere can breathe there. The sphere
is immune to ali damage. and a creature or object inside
can't be damaged by attacks or effects originating from
outside, nor can a creature inside the sphere damage
anything outside it.
The sphere is weightless and just large enough to
contain the creature or object inside. An enclosed
creature can use its action to push against the sphere's
walls and thus roll the sphere at up to half the creature's
speed. Similarly, the globe can be picked up and moved
by other creatures.
Adisintegratespell targeting the globe destroys it
without harming anything inside it.
OTTO'S IRRESISTIBLE DANCE
6th-levei enchantment
Casting Time: I action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Concentration. up to I minute
Choose one creature that you can see within range. The
target begins a comic dance in place: shuffling, tapping
its feet, and capering for the duration. Creatures that
can't be charmed are immune to this spell.
A dancing creature must use ali its movement to
dance without leaving its space and has disadvantage
on Dexterity saving throws and attack rolls. While
the target is affected by this spell, other creatures
have advantage on attack rolls against it. As an
action, a dancing creature makes a Wisdom saving
throw to regain control of itself. On a successful save.
the spell ends.
PASS WITHOUT TRACE
2nd-levei abjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: Self
Components: V.S, M (ashes from a burned leaf of
mistletoe anel a sprig of spruce)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Aveil of shadows and silence radiates from you,
masking you and your companions from detection.
For the duration. each creature you choose within 30
feet ofyou (including you) has a +10 bonus to Dexterity
PART 3ISPELLS
(Stealth) checks and can't be tracked except by magical
means. Acreature that receives this bonus leaves
behind no tracks ar other traces of its passage.
PASSWALL
5th-levei transmutation
Casting Time: I action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V.S. M (a pinch of sesame seeds)
Duration: I hour
A passage appears at a point ofyour choice that you
can see on a wooden. plaster. or stone surface (such as
a wall, a ceiling, or a floor)within range, and lasts for
the duration. Vouchoose the opening's dimensions: up
to 5 feet wide. 8 feet tall, and 20 feet deep. The passage
creates no instability in a structure surrounding it.
When the opening disappears, any creatures or
objects still in the passage created by the spell are safely
ejected to an unoccupied space nearest to the surface on
which you cast the spell.
PHANTASMAL FORCE
2nd-levei i11usion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V.S. M(a bit of fleece)
Duration: Concentration. up to I minute
Voucraft an illusion that takes root in the mind of a
creature that you can see within range. The target must
make an Intelligence saving throw. On a failed save, you
create a phantasmal object, creature. or other visible
phenomenon ofyour choice that is no larger than a
lO-footcube and that is perceivable only to the target
for the duration. This spell has no effect on undead
ar constructs.
The phantasm includes sound, temperature. and other
stimuli, also evident only to the creature.
The target can use its action to examine the phantasm
with an Intelligence (Investigation) check against your
spell save DC. If the check succeeds, the target realizes
that the phantasm is an illusion, and the spell ends.
While a target is affected by the spell, the target treats
the phantasm as if it were real. The target rationalizes
any illogical outcomes from interacting with the
phantasm. For example. a target attempting to walk
across a phantasmal bridge that spans a chasm falls
once it steps anta the bridge. ]f the target survives the
fali, it still believes that the bridge exists and comes up
with some other explanation for its fall-it was pushed,
it slipped, ar a strong wind might have knocked it off.
An affected target is so convinced of the phantasm's
reality that it can even take damage from the illusion. A
phantasm created to appear as a creature can attack the
target. Similarly. a phantasm created to appear as tire. a
pool of acid. ar lava can burn the target. Each round on
your turn. the phantasm can deal Id6 psychic damage
to the target if it is in the phantasm's area ar within 5
feet of the phantasm, provided that the illusion is of a
creature ar hazard that could logically deal damage.
such as by attacking. The target perceives the damage
as a type appropriate to the illusion.
----------------Page (53) Break----------------
PHANTASMALKILLER
4th-leveI illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Vou tap into the nightmares of a creature you can see
within range and create an illusory manifestation of its
deepest fears, visible only to that creature. The target
must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save,
the target becomes frightened for the duration. At the
start of each of the target's turns before the spell ends,
the target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw
ar take 4d 10 psychic damage. On a successful save,
the spell ends.
At Higher Leve/s.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 5th levei ar higher, the damage increases by
ldlO for each slot levei above 4th.
PHANTOMSTEED
3rd-/evel iIIusion (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: 1 hour
A Large quasi-real, horselike creature appears on
the ground in an unoccupied space ofyour choice
within range. Vou decide the creature's appearance,
but it is equipped with a saddle, bit. and bridle. Any
of the equipment created by the spell vanishes in a
puff of smoke if it is carried more than 10 feet away
from the steed.
For the duration, you or a creature you choose can
ride the steed. The creature uses the statistics for a
riding horse, except it has a speed of 100 feet and can
travei 10 miles in an hour, or 13 miles at a fast pace.
When the spell ends. the steed gradually fades. giving
the rider 1 minute to dismount. The spell ends if you use
an action to dismiss it ar if the steed takes any damage.
PLANARALLY
6th-leveI conjuration
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou beseech an otherworldly entity for aid. The being
must be known to you: a god. a primordial, a demon
prince, ar some other being of cosmic power. That entity
sends a celestial, an elemental. ar a fiend loyal to it to
aid you, making the creature appear in an unoccupied
space within range. Ifyou know a specific crcature's
name. you can speak that name when you cast this spell
to request that creature, though you might get a different
creature anyway (DM's choice).
When the creature appears. it is under no compulsion
to behave in any particular way. Vou can ask the
creature to perform a service in exchange for payment,
but it isn't obligcd to do so. The rcquested task could
range from simple (flyus across the chasm, or hclp us
fight a battle) to complex (spy on our enemies. or protect
us during our foray into the dungeon). Vou must be
abJe to communicate with the creature to bargain for
its services.
Payment can take a variety of forms. A celestial might
require a sizable donation of gold ar magic items to
an allied temple. while a fiend might demand a living
sacrifice or a gift of treasure. Some creatures might
exchange their service for a quest undertaken byyou.
As a rule of thumb, a task that can be measured in
minutes requires a payment worth 100 gp per minute. A
task measured in hours requires 1,000 gp per hour. And
a task measured in days (up to 10 days) requires 10.000
gp per day. The DM can adjust these payments based on
the circumstances under which you cast the spel!. If the
task is aligned with the creature's ethos, the payment
might be halved or even waived. Nonhazardous tasks
typically require only half the suggested payment, while
especially dangerous tasks might require a greater gift.
Creatures rarely accept tasks that seem suicida!'
After the creature completes the task, or when the
agreed-upon duration of service expires, the creature
returns to its home plane after reporting back to you.
if appropriate to the task and if possible. ]f you are
unable to agree on a price for the creature's service, the
creature immediately returns to its home plane.
A creature enlisted to join your group counts as
a member of it, receiving a full share of experience
points awarded.
PLANARBINDING
5th-leveI abjuration
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: 60 feet
Components: V.S. M (ajewel worth at least 1.000 gP.
which the spell consumes)
Duration: 24 hours
With this spell, you attempt to bind a celestial. an
elemental. a fey.or a fiend to your service. The creature
must be within range for the entire casting of the spel!.
(Typically. the creature is first summoned into the center
of an invertedmagie eirclein arder to keep it trapped
while this spell is cast.) At the completion of the casting,
the target must make a Charisma saving throw. On a
failed save, it is bound to serve you for the duration. If
the creature was summoned ar created by another spell.
that spell's duration is extended to match the duration
of this spel!.
A bound creature must follow your instructions to the
best of its ability. Vou might command the creature to
accompany you on an adventure. to guard a location. or
to deliver a message. The creature obeys the letter of
your instructions. but if the creature is hostil e to you. it
strives to twist your words to achieve its own objectives.
]f the creature carries out your instructions completely
before the spell ends, it travels to you to report this fact
ifyou are on the same plane of existence. Ifyou are on a
different plane of existence. it returns to the place where
you bound it and remains there until the spell ends.
At Higher Leve/s.When YOllcast this spellllsing a
spell slot of a higher levei, the duration increases to 10
days with a 6th-levei slot, to 30 days with a 7th-levei slot.
to 180 days with an 8th-levei slot. and to a year and a
day with a 9th-levei spell slot.
PART 3ISPELLS
----------------Page (54) Break----------------
266
PLANE SHIFT
7th-levei conjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M (a forked, metal rod worth at least
250 gp, attuned to a particular plane of existence)
Duration: Instantaneous
Vouand up to eight willing creatures who link hands in
a circle are transported to a different plane of existence.
Voucan specify a target destination in general terms,
such as the City of Brass on the Elemental Plane of
Fire or the palace of Dispater on the second levei of the
Nine Hells, and you appear in or near that destination.
Iryou are trying to reach the City of Brass, for example,
you might arrive in its Street of Steel, before its Gate of
Ashes, or looking at the city from across the Sea of Fire,
at the DM's discretion.
Alternatively, ifyou know the sigil sequence of a
teleportation circle on another plane of existence, this
spell can take you to that circle. Ir the teleportation
circle is too small to hold ali the creatures you
transported, they appear in the closest unoccupied
spaces next to the circle.
Voucan use this spell to banish an unwilling creature
to another plane. Choose a creature within your reach
and make a melee spell attack against it. On a hit, the
creature must make a Charisma saving throw. Ir the
creature fails this save, it is transported to a random
location on the plane of existence you specify. A creature
so transported must find its own way back to your
current plane of existence.
PLANT GROWTH
3rd-/evel transmutation
Casting Time: I action or 8 hours
Range: 150 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: lnstantaneous
This spell channels vitality into plants within a specific
area. There are two possible uses for the spell, granting
either immediate or long-term benefits.
Ifyou cast this spell using I action, choose a point
within range. Ali normal plants in a 100-foot radius
centered on that point become thick and overgrown. A
creature moving through the area must spend 4 feet of
movement for every I foot it moves.
Voucan exclude one or more areas of any size within
the spell's area from being affected.
Ifyou cast this spell over 8 hours, you enrich the
land. Ali plants in a half-mile radius centered on a point
within range become enriched for I year. The plants
yield twice the normal amount of food when harvested.
POISON SPRAY
Conjuration cantrip
Casting Time: I action
Range: 10feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
PART 3ISPELLS
Vouextend your hand toward a creature you can see
within range and project a puff of noxious gas from your
paIm. The creature must succeed on a Constitution
saving throw ar take Idl2 poison damage.
This spell's damage increases by Idl2 when you reach
5th leveI(2dI2), 11th levei (3dI2), and 17th leveI(4dI2).
POLYMORPH
4th-levei transmutation
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S, M(a caterpillar cocoon)
Duration: Concentration, up to I hour
This spell transforms a creature that you can see
within range into a new formoAn unwilling creature
must make a Wisdom saving throw to avoid the
effect.Ashapechanger automatically succeeds on this
saving throw.
The transformation lasts for the duration, or until
the target drops toOhit points ar dies. The new form
can be any beast whose challenge rating is equal to or
less than the target's (or the target's leveI,if it doesn't
have a challenge rating). The target's game statistics,
including mental ability scores, are replaced by the
statistics of the chosen beast. It retains its alignment
and personality.
The target assumes the hit points of its new formo
When it reverts to its normal form, the creature
returns to the number of hit points it had before it
transformed. If it reverts as a result of dropping to
Ohit points, any excess damage carries over to its
normal formoAs long as the excess damage doesn't
reduce the creature's normal form toOhit points, it isn't
knocked unconscious.
The creature is limited in the actions it can perform by
the nature of its new form, and it can't speak, cast spells,
ar take any other action that requires hands ar speech.
The target's gear melds into the new formoThe
creature can't activate, use, wield, or otherwise benefit
from any of its equipment.
POWER WORD HEAL
9th-levei evocation
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
Awave of healing energy washes over the creature
you touch. The target regains ali its hit points. If the
creature is charmed, frightened, paralyzed, ar stunned,
the condition ends. If the creature is prone, it can use its
reaction to stand up. This spell has no effect on undead
ar constructs.
POWER WORD KILL
9th-levei enchantment
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
----------------Page (55) Break----------------
Vouutter a word of power that can compel one creature
you can see within range to die instantly. lf the
creature you choose has 100 hit points or fewer. it dies.
Otherwise. the spell has no effect.
POWER WORD STUN
8th-levei enchantment
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Vouspeak a word of power that can overwhelm the
mind of one creature you can see within range. leaving
it dumbfounded. lf the target has 150 hit points or fewer.
it is stunned. Otherwise. the spell has no effect.
The stunned target must make a Constitution saving
thraw at the end of each of its turns. On a successful
save. this stunning effect ends.
PRAYER OF HEALING
2nd-leveI evocation
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Up to six creatures of your choice that you can see
within range each regain hit points equal to 2d8+your
spellcasting ability moditier. This spell has no effect on
undead or constructs.
At Higher Leve/s.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd levei or higher. the healing increases by
ld8 for each slot leveIabove 2nd.
PRESTIDIGITATION
Transmutation  cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 10feet
Components: V.S
Duration: Up to I hour
This spell is a minor magical trick that novice
spellcasters use for practice. Voucreate one of the
following magical effects within range:
Voucreate an instantaneous. harmless sensory effect.
such as a shower of sparks. a puff of wind. faint musi-
cal notes. or an odd odor.
Vouinstantaneously light or snuff out a candle. a
torch. or a small camptire.
Vouinstantaneously dean or soil an object no larger
than 1 cubic fool.
Vouchill. warm. or flavor up to I cubic foot of nonliv-
ing material for I hour.
Voumake a color. a small mark. or a symbol appear
on an object ar a surface for I hour.
Voucreate a nonmagical trinket or an iIlusory image
that can tit in your hand and that lasts until the end of
your next turno
lfyou cast this spell multiple times.YOllcan haveIIpto
three of its non-instantaneous effects aclive at a time.
and you can dismiss such an effect as an action.
PRISMATIC SPRAY
7th.level evocation
Casting Time: I action
Range: Self (60-foot cone)
Components: V.S
Duration: Instantaneous
Eight multicolored rays of light flash fram your hand.
Each ray is a different color and has a different power
and purpose. Each creature in a 60-foot cone must
make a Dexterity saving thraw. For each target. roll a d8
to determine which color ray affects il.
1. Red.The target takes IOd6 tire damage on a failed
save. or half as much damage on a successful one.
2. Orange.The target takes IOd6 acid damage on a
failed save. or half as much damage on a successful one.
3. Yellow.The target takes IOd6lightning damage on a
failed save. or half as much damage on a successful one.
4. Green.The target takes IOd6 poison damage on a
failed save. or half as much damage on a successful one.
5. B/ue.The target takes IOd6 cold damage on a failed
save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
6.Indigo.On a failed save. the target is restrained.
lt must then make a Constitution saving thraw at the
end of each of its turns. If it successfully saves three
times. the spell ends. If it fails its save three times.
it permanently turns to stone and is subjected to the
petritied condition. The successes and failures don't
need to be consecutive; keep track of both until the
target collects three of a kind.
7. Vio/et,On a failed save, the target is blinded. lt
must then make a Wisdom saving throw at the start of
your next turnoAsuccessful save ends the blindness. lf
it fails that save, the creature is transported to another
plane of existence of the DM's choosing and is no longer
blinded. (Typically,a creature that is on a plane that isn't
its home plane is banished home. while other creatures
are usually cast into the Astral or Ethereal planes.)
8. Specia/.The target is struck by two rays. Roll twice
more, rerolling any 8.
PRISMATIC WALL
9th-leveI abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V.S
Duration: 10minutes
A shimmering, multicolored plane of light forms a
vertical opaque wall-up to 90 feet long. 30 feet high.
and I inch thick-centered on a point you can see
within range. Alternatively, you can shape the wall into
a sphere up to 30 feet in diameter centered on a point
you choose within range. The wall remains in place for
the duration.lfyou position the wall so that it passes
through a space occupied by a creature. the spell fails.
and your action and the spell slot are wasted.
The wall sheds bright light out to a range of 100
feet and dim light for an additional 100 feel. Vouand
creatures you designate at the lime you cast the spell
can pass through and remain near the wall without
harm. If another creature that can see the wall moves to
within 20 feet of it or starts its tum there. the creature
PART 3ISPELLS
----------------Page (56) Break----------------

----------------Page (57) Break----------------
must succeed00a Coostitutioo saviog throw or become
blioded for I mioute.
The wall coosists of seveo layers. each with a differeot
color. Wheo a creature attempts to reach ioto or pass
through the wall, it does so ooe layer at a time through
ali the wall's layers. As it passes or reaches through
each layer, the creature must make a Dexterity saviog
throw or be affected by that layer's properties as
described below.
The wall cao be destroyed, also ooe layer at a time, io
order from red to violet, by meaos specific to each layer.
Ooce a layer is destroyed, it remaios so for the duratioo
of the spell. Arod of cancellationdestroys aprismatic
wall,but aoantimagic fieldhas00effect00it.
1.Red.The creature takes IOd6 fire damage00a
failed save, or half as much damage00a successful ooe.
While this layer is io place, ooomagical raoged attacks
cao't pass through the wall. The layer cao be destroyed
by dealiog at least 25 cold damage to it.
2. Orange.The creature takes IOd6 acid damage00
a failed save, or half as much damage00a successful
ooe. While this layer is io place, magical raoged attacks
cao't pass through the wall. The layer is destroyed by
a stroog wiod.
3.YeJIow.The creature takes lOd6 lightoiog damage
00a failed save, or half as much damage00a successfulooe. This layer cao be destroyed by dealiog at least 60
force damage to it.
4. Green.The creature takes lOd6 poisoo damage00
a failed save, ar half as much damage00a successful
ooe. Apasswallspell, or aoother spell of equal or
greater levei that cao opeo a portal00a solid surface,
destrays this layer.
5. Blue.The creature takes IOd6cold damage00a
failed save, or half as much damage00a successful ooe.
This layer cao be destroyed by dealiog at least 25 fire
damage to it.
6. Jndigo.00a failed save, the creature is restraioed.
11must theo make a Coostitutiao saviog throw at the
eod of each of its turns. lf it successfully saves three
times, the spell eods. lf it fails its save three times,
it permaoeotly turos to stooe aod is subjected to the
petrified cooditioo. The successes aod failures doo't
need to be coosecutive; keep track of both uotil the
creature collects three of a kiod.
While this layer is io place, spells cao't be cast
through the wall. The layer is destroyed by bright light
shed byaday/ightspell or a similar spell of equal or
higher leveI.
7. Violet.00a failed save, the creature is blioded.11
must theo make a Wisdom saviog throw at the start of
your oext turnoAsuccessful save eods the bliodoess. lf
it fails that save, the creature is traosported to aoother
plaoe of the DM's choosiog aod is00looger blioded.
(Typically,a creature that is00a plaoe that iso't its
home plaoe is baoished home, while other creatures
are usually cast ioto the Astral or Ethereal plaoes.) This
layer is destroyed byadispel magicspell or a similar
spell of equal or higher leveIthat cao eod spells aod
magical effects.
PRODUCE FLAME
Conjuration cantrip
Casting Time: I actioo
Range:Self
Components: V,S
Duration: lO mioutes
A flickeriog flame appears io your hand. The flame
remaios there for the duration aod harms oeither you
oor your equipmeot. The flame sheds bright light in a
10-foot radius aod dim light for an additiooal 10 feet.
The spell ends ifyou dismiss it as ao action or ifyou
cast it again.
Voucao also attack with the flame, although doing so
eods the spell. Wheo you cast this spell, or as ao action
00a later turn, you cao hurl the flame at a creaturewithio 30 feet ofyou. Make a raoged spell attack.00a
hit, the target takes Id8 fire damage.
This spell's damage iocreases by Id8 wheo you reach
5th levei (2d8), 11th levei (3d8), aod 17th levei (4d8).
PROGRAMMED  ILLUSION
6th.level illusion
Casting Time: I actioo
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S, M(a bit of fleece and jade dust worth
at least 25 gp)
Duration: Until dispelled
Voucreate ao ilIusioo of ao object, a creature, ar
some other visible pheoomeooo within raoge that
activates wheo a specific cooditioo occurs. The ilIusioo
is imperceptible uotil theo.11must be00larger thao a
30-foot cube, aod you decide wheo you cast the spell
how the illusioo behaves aod what souods it makes. This
scripted performaoce cao last up to 5 mioutes.
Wheo the cooditioo you specify occurs, the illusioo
spriogs ioto existeoce aod performs io the maooer you
described. Ooce the ilIusioo fioishes performiog, it
disappears aod remaios dormaot for 10mioutes. After
this time, the ilIusioo cao be activated agaio.
The triggeriog cooditioo cao be as geoeral or as
detailed as you like, though it must be based00visual or
audible cooditioos that occur withio 30 feet of the area.
For example, you could create ao illusioo of yourself
to appear aod warn offothers who attempt to opeo a
trapped door, or you could set the illusioo to trigger ooly
wheo a creature says the correct word or phrase.
Physical ioteractioo with the image reveals it to be ao
illusioo, because thiogs cao pass through it. Acreature
that uses its actioo to examioe the image cao determioe
that it is ao illusioo with a successfullotelligeoce
(fovestigatioo) check agaiost your spell save DC. lf a
creature discerns the illusioo for what it is, the creature
cao see through the image, aod aoy noise it makes
souods hollow to the creature.
PART 3ISPELLS
----------------Page (58) Break----------------
270
PROJECT IMAGE
7th-levei iIlusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 500 miles
Components: V,S, M (a small replica ofyou made from
materiais worth at least 5 gp)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 day
Voucreate an illusory copy ofyourself that lasts for
the duration. The copy can appear at any location
within range that you have seen before, regardless of
intervening obstacles. The illusion Iooks and sounds
like you but is intangible.Irthe illusion takes any
damage, it disappears, and the spell ends.
Voucan use your action to move this illusion up to
twice your speed, and make it gesture, speak, and
behave in whatever way you choose. It mimics your
mannerisms perfectly.
Voucan see through its eyes and hear through its
ears as ifyou were in its space. On your turn as a bonus
action, you can switch from using its senses to using
your own, or back again. While you are using its senses,
you are blinded and deafened in regard to your own
surroundings.
Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be an
illusion, because things can pass through it. A creature
that uses its action to examine the image can determine
that it is an illusion with a successful Intelligence
(Investigation) check against your spell save DC. If a
creature discerns the illusion for what it is, the creature
can see through the image, and any noise it makes
sounds hollow to the creature.
PROTECTION  FROM ENERGY
3rd-/evel abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
For the duration, the willing creature you touch has
resistance to one damage type ofyour choice: acid, cold,
fire, lightning, or thunder.
PROTECTION FROM EVIL AND GOOD
1st-levei abjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M(holywater or powdered silver
and iron, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Concentration up to 10 minutes
Until the spell ends, one willing creature you
touch is protected against certain types of
creatures: aberrations, celestiais, elementals, fey,
fiends, and undead.
The protection grants several benefits. Creatures of
those types have disadvantage on attack rolls against
the targel. The target also can't be charmed, frightened,
or possessed by them.Irthe target is already charmed,
frightened, or possessed by such a creature, the target
has advantage on any new saving throw against the
relevant effecl.
PART 3ISPELLS
PROTECTlON  FROM POISON
2nd-levei abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S
Duration: I hour
Voutouch a creature. If it is poisoned, you neutralize the
poison, If more than one poison afllicts the target, you
neutralize one poison that you know is present, or you
neutralize one at random,
For the duration, the target has advantage on saving
throws against being poisoned, and it has resistance to
poison damage.
PURIFY FOOD AND DRINK
1st-levei transmutation (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 10feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
Ali nonmagical food and drink within a 5-foot-radius
sphere centered on a point of your choice within range is
purified and rendered free of poison and disease.
RAISE DEAD
5th-levei necromancy
Casting Time: I hour
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M(a diamond worth at least 500 gp,
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
Voureturn a dead creature you touch to life, provided
that it has been dead no longer than 10days.Irthe
creature's soul is both willing and at liberty to rejoin the
body, the creature returns to life with I hit poinl.
This spell also neutralizes any poisons and cures
nonmagical diseases that affected the creature at the
time it died. This spell doesn't, however, remove magical
diseases, curses, or similar effects; if these aren't first
removed prior to casting the spell, they take effect when
the creature returns to life. The spell can't return an
undead creature to life.
This spell closes ali mortal wounds, but it doesn't
restore missing body parts.Irthe creature is lacking
body parts or organs integral for its survival-its head,
for instance-the spell automatically fails.
Coming back from the dead is an ordeal. The target
takes a-4penalty to ali attack rolls, saving throws, and
ability checks. Every time the target finishes a long rest,
the penalty is reduced by 1 until it disappears.
RARY'S TELEPATHIC BOND
5th-levei divination (ritual)
Casting Time: 1action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S, M (pieces of eggshell from two
different kinds of creatures)
Duration: I hour
Vouforge a telepathic link among up to eight willing
creatures ofyour choice within range, psychically
----------------Page (59) Break----------------
The reincarnated creature recalls its former life
and experiences. It retains the capabilities it had in its
original form, except it exchanges its original race for
the new one and changes its racial traits accordingly.
Vou touch a creature and stimulate its natural healing
ability. The target regains 4d8+15 hit points. For the
duration of the spell, the target regains I hit point at the
start of each of its turns (10 hit points each minute).
The target's severed body members (fingers, legs,
tails, and so on), if any, are restored after 2 minutes.
Ifyou have the severed part and hold it to the stump,
the spell instantaneously causes the limb to knit
to the stump.
REMOVE CURSE
3rd./evel abjuration
Casting Time:1 action
Range:Touch
Components:V,S
Duration:Instantaneous
At your touch, all curses affecting one creature ar
object end. If the object is a cursed magic item, its curse
remains, but the spell breaks its owner's attunement to
the object so it can be removed ar discarded.
REINCARNATE
5th./evel transmutation
Casting Time:1 hour
Range:Touch
Components:V,5, M (rare oils and unguents worth at
least 1,000 gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration:Instantaneous
Vou touch a dead humanoid ar a piece of a dead
humanoid. Provided that the creature has been dead no
longer than 10 days, the spell forms a new adult body
for it and then calls the soul to enter that body. If the
target's soul isn't free or willing to do so, the spell fails.
The magic fashions a new body for the creature
to inhabit, which likely causes the creature's race to
change. The DM rolls a dlOO and consults the following
table to determine what form the creature takes when
restored to life, ar the DM chooses a formo
Raee
Dragonborn
Dwarf, hill
Dwarf, mountain
Elf, dark
Elf, high
Elf, wood
Gnome,  forest
Gnome,  rock
Half.elf
Haif.ore
Halfiing,lightfoot
Haifiing, stout
Human
Tiefiing
dlOO
01-04
05-13
14-21
22-25
26-34
35-42
43-46
47-52
53-56
57-60
61-68
69-76
77-96
97-00
RAY OF ENFEEBLEMENT
2nd./evel necromancy
Casting Time:1 action
Range:60 feet
Components:V,5
Duration:Concentration, up to 1 minute
A black beam of enervating energy springs fram your
finger toward a creature within range. Make a ranged
spell attack against the target. On a hit, the target deals
only half damage with weapon attacks that use 5trength
until the spell ends.
At the end of each of the target's turns, it can make
a Constitution saving throw against the spell. On a
success, the spell ends.
RAY OF FROST
Evocation cantrip
Casting Time:I action
Range:60 feet
Components:V,5
Duration:Instantaneous
A frigid beam of blue-white light streaks toward a
creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack
against the target. On a hit, it takes ld8 cold damage,
and its speed is reduced by 10 feet until the start of
your next turno
The spell's damage increases by Id8 when you reach
5th levei (2d8), 11th levei (3d8), and 17th levei (4d8).
RAY OF SICKNESS
1st-leveI necromancy
Casting Time:I action
Range:60 feet
Components:V,5
Duration:Instantaneous
A ray of sickening greenish energy lashes out toward
a creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack
against the target. On a hit, the target takes 2d8 poison
damage and must make a Constitution saving throw.
On a failed save, it is also poisoned until the end of
your next turno
At Higher Leve/s.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd levei ar higher, the damage increases by
ld8 for each slot levei above 1st.
linking each creature to all the others for the duration.
Creatures with Intelligence scores of 2 ar less aren't
affected by this spell.
Until the spell ends, the targets can communicate
telepathically thraugh the bond whether ar not they have
a common language. The communication is possible
over any distance, though it can't extend to other planes
of existence.
REGENERATE
7th-levei transmutation
Casting Time:1 minute
Range:Touch
Components:V,5, M (a prayer wheel and holy water)
Duration:1 hour
P\RT  3   SPELLS2~1
----------------Page (60) Break----------------
272
RESlSTANCE
Abjuration  cantrip
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S,M(a minialure doak)
Duration: Concenlralion, up lo I minule
Voulouch one willing crealure. Once before lhe spell
ends, lhe largel can roll a d4 and add lhe number
ralled lo one saving lhraw of ils choice. It canrall
lhe die before or afler making lhe saving lhraw. The
spelllhen ends.
RESURRECTION
7th-leveI necromancy
Casting Time: I hour
Range: Touch
Components: V,S,M(a diamond worlh alleasl 1,000
gp, which lhe spell consumes)
Duration: Inslanlaneous
Voulouch a dead crealure lhal has been dead for no
more than a cenlury, lhal didn'l die of old age, and lhal
isn'l undead. If ilSsoul is free and willing, lhe largel
relurns lo life with ali ils hil poinls.
This spell neulralizes any poisons and cures normal
diseases affticling lhe creature when il died. It doesn'l,
however, remove magical diseases. curses, and lhe like;
if such effecls aren'l removed prior lo casling the spell,
lhey affticl lhe largel on ils relurn lo life.
This spell doses ali morlal wounds and reslores any
missing body paris.
Coming back from lhe dead is an ordeal. The largel
lakes a -4 penally lOali allack rolls, saving lhrows, and
abilily checks. Every lime lhe largel finishes a long resl,
the penally is reduced by I unlil il disappears.
Casling lhis spelllo reslore life lOa crealure lhat has
been dead for one year or longer laxes you greally. Unlil
you finish a long resl, you can'l casl spells again, and
you have disadvanlage on ali allack rolls, abilily checks,
and saving lhrows.
REVERSE GRAVITY
7th-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: I aclion
Range: 100 feel
Components: V,S,M(a lodeslone and iran filings)
Duration: Concenlralion, up lOI minule
This spell reverses gravilyin a 50-fool-radius, 100-
foolhigh cylinder cenlered on a poinl wilhin range. Ali
crealures and objecls thal aren'l somehow anchored lo
the ground in lhe area faliupward and reach lhe lop of
lhe area when you casllhis spell. Acrealure can make a
Dexlerily saving thraw lo grab onlo a fixedobjecl ilcan
reach, lhus avoiding lhe falI.
lf some solid objecl (such as a ceiling) is encounlered
in lhis fali, faIling objecls and crealures slrike iljuSl as
lhey would during a normal downward falI. Ifan objecl
or crealure reaches lhe lop of lhe area wilhoul slriking
anylhing, il remains lhere, oscillaling slighlly, for
lhe duralion.
AI lhe end of lhe duralion, affecled objecls and
crealures fali back down.
PART 3ISPELLS
REVIVIFY
3rd-level conjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S,M (diamonds worlh 300 gp, which
lhe spell consumes)
Duration: Inslanlaneous
Voulouch a crealure lhal has died wilhin lhe lasl
minule. Thal crealure relurns lo life wilh I hil poinl.
This spell can'l relurn lo life a crealure lhal has died of
old age, nor can il reslore any missing body parIs.
ROPE TRICK
2nd-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: I aclion
Range: Touch
Components: V,S,M(powdered corn exlracl and a
lwisted loop of parchmenl)
Duration: I hour
Vou touch a length of rape lhat is up lo 60 feellong.
One end of lhe rope then rises inlo lhe air unlillhe
whole rope hangs perpendicular lo lhe ground. AIlhe
upper end of the rope, an invisible enlrance opens lo an
exlradimensional space lhallasls unlillhe spell ends.
The extradimensional space can be reached by
dimbing lo lhe top of lhe rope. The space can hold as
many as eighl Medium or smaller creatures. The rope
can be pulled inlo lhe space, making lhe rape disappear
from view oulside lhe space,
Allacks and spells can'l crass lhrough lhe enlrance
into or oul of lhe exlradimensional space, bullhose
inside can see oul of il as if lhrough a 3-foOl-by-5-fool
window cenlered on lhe rope.
Anylhing inside lhe exlradimensional space drops oul
when lhe spell ends.
SACRED FLAME
Evocation cantrip
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feel
Components: V,S
Duration: Inslanlaneous
Flame.like radiance descends on a creature lhal you
can see wilhin range. The largel musl succeed on a
Dexterily saving throw or take Id8 radianl damage. The
largel gains no benefil from cover for lhis saving lhrow.
The spell's damage increases by Id8 when you reach
51hlevei (2d8), Illh levei (3d8), and 171hleveI(4d8).
SANCTUARY
Ist./evel abjuration
Casting Time: I bonus aclion
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S,M (a small silver mirror)
Duration: I minule
Vouward a crealure within range againsl allack. Unlil
lhe spell ends, any crealure who largels lhe warded
crealure wilh an allack or a harmful spell musl firsl
make a Wisdom saving lhrow. On a failed save, the
creature musl choose a new largel or lose lhe allack
----------------Page (61) Break----------------
or spell. This spell doesn't protect the warded creature
from area effects, such as the explosion of a fireball.
If the warded creature makes an attack or casts a spell
that affects an enemy creature, this spell ends.
On a successful save. the target isn't affected. and you
can't use this spell against it again for 24 hours.
On a failed save. the spell creates an invisible sensor
within 10 feet of the target. Vou can see and hear through
the sensor as ifyou were there. The sensor moves with
lhe target, remaining within 10 feet of it for the duration.
A creature that can see invisible objects sees the sensor
as a luminous orb about the size of your fist.
Instead of targeting a creature. you can choose a
location you have seen before as the target of this spell.
When you do, the sensor appcars al that location and
doesn't move.
SCORCHING RAY
2nd./evel evocation
Casting Time:1 action
Range:120 feet
Components:V.S
Duration:Instantaneous
Vou create three rays of fire and hurJ them at targets
within range. Vou can hurJ them at one target or several.
Make a ranged spell attack for each ray. On a hit, the
target takes 2d6 fire damage.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd leveI or higher. you create one additional
ray for each slot leveI above 2nd.
Save Modifier
-2
-4
-10
Save Modifier
+s
+0-s
Knowledge
Secondhand  (you have heard of the target)
Firsthand  (you have met the target)
Familiar (you know the target well)
Connection
Likeness or picture
Possession ar garment
Body parto lock of hair. bit of nail, or the like
SCRYING
5th-leveI divination
Casting Time:10 minutes
Range:Self
Components:V.S. M (a focus worth at least 1.000 gp.
such as a crystal ball, a silver mirror, or a font filled
with holy water)
Duration:Concentration. up tolaminutes
Vou can see and hear a particular creature you choose
that is on the same plane of existence as you. The target
must make a Wisdom saving throw, which is modified
by how well you know the target and the sort of physical
connection you have to it. Jf a target knows you're
casting this spell, it can fail the saving throw voluntarily
if it wants to be observed.
----------------Page (62) Break----------------
SEARING SMITE
1st-leveI evocation
Casting Time: I bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
The next time you hit a creature with a melee weapon
attack during the spell's duration, your weapon flares
with white.hot intensity, and the attack deals an extra
Id6 tire damage to the target and causes the target to
ignite in flames. At the start of each of its turns until
the spell ends, the target must make a Constitution
saving throw. On a failed save, it takes Id6 tire damage.
On a successful save, the spell ends. lf the target or a
creature within 5 feet of it uses an action to put out the
flames, or if some other effect douses the flames (such
as the target being submerged in water), the spell ends.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd leveIor higher, the initial extra damage
dealt by the attack increases by Id6 for each slot
leveIabove 1st.
SEE INVISIBILITY
2nd./eveI divination
Casting Time: I action
Range: SeIf
Components: V,S, M(a pinch of tale and a small
sprinkling of powdered silver)
Duration: I hour
For the duration, you see invisible creatures and objects
as if they were visible, and you can see into the Ethereal
Plane. Ethereal creatures and objects appear ghostly
and translucent.
SEEMING
5th./evel iJJusion
Casting Time: I action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: 8 hours
This spell allows you to change the appearance of any
number of creatures that you can see within range. Vou
give each target you choose a new, iIIusory appearance.
An unwilling target can make a Charisma saving throw,
and if it succeeds, it is unaffected by this spell.
The spell disguises physical appearance as well as
clothing, armor, weapons, and equipment. Voucan make
each creature seem I foot shorter or taller and appear
thin, fat, or in between. Voucan't change a target's body
type, so you must choose a form that has the same
basic arrangement of limbs. Otherwise, the extent of
the illusion is up to you. The spell lasts for the duration,
unless you use your action to dismiss it sooner.
The changes wrought by this spell fail to hold up to
physical inspection. For example, ifyou use this spell
to add a hat to a creature's outtit, objects pass through
the hat, and anyone who touches it would feel nothing
or would feel the creature's head and hair. Ifyou use
this spell to appear thinner than you are, the hand of
PART 3ISPELLS
someone who reaches out to touch you would bump into
you while it was seemingly still in midair.
Acreature can use its action to inspect a target and
make an Intelligence (Investigation) check against your
spell save DC. If it succeeds, it becomes aware that the
target is disguised.
SENDING
3rd./eveI evocation
Casting Time: I action
Range: Unlimited
Components: V,S, M(a short piece of tine copper wire)
Duration: I round
Vousend a short message of twenty-tive words or
less to a creature with which you are familiar. The
creature hears the message in its mind, recognizes
you as the sender if it knows you, and can answer in a
like manner immediately. The spell enables creatures
with Intelligence scores of at least I to understand the
meaning ofyour message.
Voucan send the message across any distance and
even to other planes of existence, but if the target is on a
different plane than you, there is a 5 percent chance that
the message doesn't arrive.
SEQUESTER
7th-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M (a powder composed of diamond,
emerald, ruby, and sapphire dust worth at least 5,000
gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
Bymeans of this spell, a willing creature or an object
can be hidden away, safe from detection for the
duration. When you cast the spell and touch the target,
it becomes invisible and can't be targeted by divination
spells or perceived through scrying sensors created by
divination spells.
If the target is a creature, it falls into a state of
suspended animation. Time ceases to flowfor it, and it
doesn't grow older.
Voucan set a condition for the spell to end early.
The condition can be anything you choose, but it
must occur or be visible within I mile of the target.
Examples include "after 1,000 years" or "when the
tarrasque awakens." This spell also ends if the target
takes any damage.
SHAPECHANGE
9th-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: I action
Range: Self
Components: V,S, M (ajade circlet worth at least 1,500
gp, which you must place on your head before you
cast the spell)
Duration: Concentration, up to I hour
Vouassume the form of a different creature for the
duration. The new form can be of any creature with
a challenge rating equal to your leveIor lower. The
----------------Page (63) Break----------------
creature can't be a construct or an undead, and you
must have seen the sort of creature at least once. Vou
transform into an average example of that creature, one
without any c1ass leveis or the Spellcasting trait.
Vour game statistics are replaced by the statistics
of the chosen creature, though you retain your
alignment and Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma
scores. Vou also retain ali of your skill and saving
throw proficiencies, in addition to gaining those of the
creature. If the creature has the same proficiency as you
and the bonus Iisted in its statistics is higher than yours,
use the creature's bonus in place of yours. Vou can't use
any legendary actions or lair actions of the new formo
Vou assume the hit points and Hit Dice ofthe new
formoWhen you revert to your normal form, you
return to the number of hit points you had before you
transformed. ]f you revert as a result of dropping to
Ohit points, any excess damage carries over to your
normal formo As long as the excess damage doesn't
reduce your normal form to Ohit points, you aren't
knocked unconscious.
Vou retain the benefit of any features from your c1ass,
race, or other source and can use them, provided that
your new form is physically capable of doing so. Vou
can't use any special senses you have (for example,
darkvision) unless your new form also has that sense.
Vou can only speak if the creature can normally speak.
When you transform, you choose whether your
equipment falls to the ground, merges into the new
form, or is worn by it. Worn equipment functions as
normal. The DM determines whether it is practical for
the new form to wear a piece of equipment, based on
the creature's shape and size. Vour equipment doesn't
change shape or size to match the new form, and any
equipment that the new form can't wear must either fali
to the ground or merge into your new formo Equipment
that merges has no effect in that state.
During this spell's duration, you can use your action to
assume a different form following the same restrictions
and rules for the original form, with one exception; if
your new form has more hit points than your current
one, your hit points remain at their current value.
SHATTER
2nd.level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S, M (a chip of mica)
Duration: Instantaneous
A sudden loud ringing noise, painfully intense, erupts
from a point of your choice within range. Each creature
in a lO-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must
make a Constitution saving throw. A creature takes
3d8 thunder damage on a failed save, or half as much
damage on a successful one. A creature made of
inorganic material such as stone, crystal, or metal has
disadvantage on this saving throw.
A nonmagical object that isn't being worn or carried
also takes the damage if it's in the spcll's arca.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd levei or higher, the damage increases by
ld8 for each slot levei above 2nd.
SHIELD
1st-levei abjuration
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you are
hit by an attack or targeted by themagic missilespell
Range: SeIf
Components: V,S
Duration: 1 round
An invisible barrier of magical force appears and
protectsYOU.Until the start ofyour next turn, you have a
+5 bonus to AC, including against the triggering attack,
and you take no damage frommagic missile.
SHIELD OF FAITH
1st-levei abjuration
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S, M (a small parchment with a bit of
holy text writlen on it)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
A shimmering field appears and surrounds a creature
ofyour choice within range, granting it a +2 bonus to AC
for the duration.
SHILLELAGH
Transmutation cantrip
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M (mistletoe, a shamrock leaf, and a
c1ubor quarterstaff)
Duration: 1 minute
The wood of a c1ubor quarterstaff you are holding is
imbued with nature's power. For the duration, you can
use your spellcasting ability instead of Strength for
the atlack and damage rolls of melee attacks using
that weapon, and the weapon's damage die becomes
a d8. The weapon also becomes magical, if it isn't
already. The spell ends if you cast it again or ifyou let go
of the weapon.
SHOCKING  GRASP
Evocat/on cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
Lightning springs from your hand to deliver a shock to
a creature you try to touch. Make a melee spell atlack
against the target. Vou have advantage on the attack roll
if the target is wearing armor made of metal. On a hit,
the target takes ld8lightning damage, and it can't take
reactions until the start of its next turno
The spell's damage incrcases hy ld8 when you reach
5th levei (2d8), 11th levei (3d8), and 17th levei (4d8).
SILENCE
2nd-leveI iIlusion (ritl1al)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
PART 3  SPEI LS
----------------Page (64) Break----------------
For the duration, no sound can be created within or
pass through a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on a
point you choose within range. Any creature or object
entirely inside the sphere is immune to thunder damage,
and creatures are deafened while entirely inside it.
Casting a spell that includes a verbal component is
impossible there.
SILENT IMAGE
1st-/evel iJlusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S, M (a bit of fleece)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Vou create the image of an object, a creature, or some
other visible phenomenon that is no larger than a 15-foot
cube. The image appears at a spot within range and
lasts for the duration. The image is purely visual; it isn't
accompanied by sound, smell, or other sensory effects.
Vou can use your action to cause the image to move to
any spot within range. As the image changes location,
you can alter its appearance so that its movements
appear natural for the image. For example, if you create
an image of a creature and move it, you can alter the
image so that it appears to be walking.
Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be an
illusion, because things can pass through it. A creature
that uses its action to examine the image can determine
that it is an illusion with a successful Intelligence
(Investigation) check against your spell save DC. If a
creature disceros the illusion for what it is, the creature
can see through the image.
SIMULACRUM
7th-levei illusion
Casting Time: 12 hours
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M (snow or ice in quantities
sufficient to made a life-size copy of the duplicated
creature; some hair, fingeroail clippings, or other
piece of that creature's body placed inside the snow
or ice; and powdered ruby worth 1,500 gp, sprinkled
over the duplicate and consumed by the spell)
Duration: Until dispelled
Vou shape an illusory duplica te of one beast or
humanoid that is within range for the entire casting
time of the spell. The duplicate is a creature, partially
real and formed from ice or snow, and it can take
actions and otherwise be affected as a normal creature.
It appears to be the same as the original, but it has half
the creature's hit point maximum and is formed without
any equipment. Otherwise, the illusion uses ali the
statistics of the creature it duplicates.
The simulacrum is friendly to you and creatures you
designa te. It obeys your spoken commands, moving
and acting in accordance with your wishes and acting
on your turo in combat. The simulacrum lacks the
ability to learo or beco me more powerful, so it never
increases its levei or other abilities, nor can it regain
expended spell slots.
PART 3ISPELLS
If the simulacrum is damaged, you can repair it in an
alchemicallaboratory,  using rare herbs and minerais
worth 100 gp per hit poim it regains. The simulacrum
lasts until it drops toOhit points, at which point it
reverts to snow and melts instantly.
Ifyou cast this spell again, any currently
active duplicates you created with this spell are
instantly destrayed.
SLEEP
1st-levei enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V,S, M (a pinch of fine sand, rose petals,
or a cricket)
Duration: 1 minute
This spell sends creatures into a magical slumber.
RolI 5d8; the total is how many hit points of creatures
this spell can affect. Creatures within 20 feet of
a point you choose within range are affected in
ascending order of their currem hit points (ignoring
unconscious creatures).
Starting with the creature that has the lowest current
hit points, each creature affected by this spell falls
unconscious until the spell ends, the sleeper takes
damage, or someone uses an action to shake or slap the
sleeper awake. Subtract each creature's hit points fram
the total before moving on to the creature with the next
lowest hit points. A creature's hit points must be equal
to or less than the remaining total for that creature
to be affected.
Undead and creatures immune to being charmed
aren't affected by this spell.
At Hil1her LeveIs.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd levei or higher, roll an additional 2d8 for
each slot levei above 1st.
SLEET STORM
3rd-/evel conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V,S, M (a pinch of dust and a few
drops of water)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Until the spell ends, freezing rain and sleet fali in a
20-foot-tall cylinder with a 40-foot radius centered on
a point you choose within range. The area is heavily
obscured, and exposed flames in the area are doused.
The ground in the area is covered with slick ice,
making it difficult terrain. When a creature enters the
spell's area for the first time on aturo or starts its turo
there, it must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed
save, it falls prone.
If a creature is concentrating in the spell's area, the
creature must make a successful Constitution saving
throw against your spell save DC or lose concentration.
----------------Page (65) Break----------------
SLOW
3rd-Ievel transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S, M (a drop of molasses)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Vou alter time around up to six creatures ofyour
choice in a 40-foot cube within range, Each target must
succeed on a Wisdom saving throw ar be affected by
this spell for the duration.
An affected target's speed is halved, it takes a -2
penalty to AC and Dexterity saving throws, and it can't
use reactions. On its turn, it can use elther an action ar
a bonus action, not both. Regardless of the creature's
abilities ar magic items, it can't make more than one
melee ar ranged attack during its turno
If the creature attempts to cast a spell with a casting
time of 1 action, roll a d20. On an 11 ar higher, the spell
doesn't take effect until the creature's next turn, and the
creature must use its action on that turn to complete the
spell. If it can't, the spell is wasted.
A creature affected by this spell makes another
Wisdom savlng throw at the end of its turno On a
successful save, the effect ends for lI.
SPARE THE DYING
Necromancy cantrip
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou touch a living creature that has Ohit points. The
creature becomes stable. This spell has no effect on
undead ar constructs.
SPEAK WITH ANIMALS
1st-leveI divination (ritual)
Casting Time: I action
Range: Sei f
Components: V,S
Duration: 10 minutes
Vou gain the ability to comprehend and verbally
communicate with beasts for the duration. The
knowledge and awareness of many beasts is limited
by their intelligence, but at minimum, beasts can
give you information about nearby locations and
monsters, inc1uding whatever they can perceive ar have
perceived within the past day. Vou mlght be able to
persuade a beast to perform a small favor for you, at the
DM's discretion.
SPEAK WITH DEAD
3rd-Ievel necromancy
Casting Time: I action
Range: 10 feet
Components: V,S, M (burning incense)
Duration: 10 minutes
Vou grant the semblance of life and intelligence to a
corpse of your choice within range, allowing It to answer
the questions you pose. The corpse must still have a
mouth and can't be undead. The spell fails if the corpse
was the target of this spell within the last 10 days.
Until the spell ends, you can ask the corpse up to five
questions. The corpse knows only what it knew in life,
inc1uding the languages it knew. Answers are usually
brief, cryptic, ar repetitive, and the corpse is under no
compulsion to offer a truthful answer ifyou are hostile
to it or it recognizes you as an enemy. This spell doesn't
return the creature's soul to its body, only its animating
spiril. Thus, the corpse can't learn new Information,
doesn't comprehend anything that has happened since it
died, and can't speculate about future events.
SPEAK WITH PLANTS
3rd-Ievel transmutation
Casting Time: I action
Range: Sei f (30-foot radius)
Components: V,S
Duration: 10 minutes
Vou imbue plants within 30 feet ofyou with limited
sentience and animation, giving them the ability
to communicate with you and follow your simple
commands. Vou can question plants about events in the
spell's area within the past day, gaining information
about crealures that have passed, weather, and other
circumstances.
Vou can also turn difficult terrain caused by plant
growth (such as thickets and undergrowth) into ordinary
terrain that lasls for the duratlon. Or you can turn
ordinary terrain where plants are present into difficult
terrain that lasts for the duration, causing vines and
branches to hindcr pursuers, for example.
Plants might be able to perform other tasks on your
behalf, at the DM's discretion. The spell doesn't enable
plants to uproot themselves and move about, but they
can freely move branches, tendrils, and stalks.
lf a plant creature is in the area, you can communicate
with it as if you shared a common language, but you
gain no magical ability to influence it.
This spell can cause the plants created by theentangle
spell to release a restrained creature.
SPIDER CUMB
2nd-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M (a drop of bitumen and a spider)
Duration: Concentration, up to I hour
Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch
gains the ability to move up, down, and across vertical
surfaces and upside down along ceilings, while leaving
its hands free. The target also gains a c1imbing speed
equal to its walking speed.
SPIKE GROWTH
2nd-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: I action
Range: ISO feet
Components: V,S, M (seven sharp thorns ar seven
small twigs, each sharpened to a point)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
PART 3ISPELLS277
----------------Page (66) Break----------------
The ground in a 20-foot radius centered on a point
within range twists and sprouts hard spikes and thorns.
The area becomes difficult terrain for the duration.
When a creature moves into or within the area, it takes
2d4 piercing damage for every 5 feet it travels.
The transformation of the ground is camoufiaged to
look natura!. Any creature that can't see the area at the
time the spell is cast must make a Wisdom (Perception)
check against your spell save DC to recognize the
terrain as hazardous before entering it.
SPIRIT  GUARDIANS
3rd-/evel conjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: SeIf (15-foot radius)
Components: V,S, M (a holy symbol)
Duration: Concentration, up to lO minutes
Vou call forth spirits to protect you. They fiit around you
to a distance of 15 feet for the duration. Ifyou are good
or neutra!. their spectral form appears angelic or fey
(your choice). Ifyou are evil, they appear fiendish.
When you cast this spell, you can designate any
number of creatures you can see to be unaffected by it.
An affected creature's speed is halved in the area, and
when the creature enters the area for the first time on
a turn or starts its turn there, it must make a Wisdom
saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 3d8
radiant damage (ifyou are good or neutral) or 3d8
necrotic damage (ifyou are evil). On a successful save,
the creature takes half as much damage.
At Higher Leveis.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th leveI or higher, the damage increases by
Id8 for each slot leveI above 3rd.
SPIRITUAL  WEAPON
2nd-levei evacatian
Casting Time: I bonus actian
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: I minute
You create a fioating, spectral weapon within range that
lasts for the duration or until you cast this spell again.
When you cast the spell, you can make a melee spell
attack against a creature within 5 feet of the weapon. On
a hit, the target takes force damage equal to Id8+your
spellcasting ability modifier.
As a bonus action on your turn, you can move the
weapon up to 20 feet and repeat the attack against a
creature within 5 feet of it.
The weapon can take whatever form yau choose.
Clerics of deities who are associated with a particular
weapon (as SI. Cuthbert is known for his mace
and Thor for his hammer) make this spell's effect
resemble that weapon.
At Higher Leveis.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd leveI or higher, the damage increases by
Id8 for everytwaslot leveIs above the 2nd.
PART 3ISI'ELLS
STAGGERING  SMITE
4th-levei evacatian
Casting Time: 1 banus actian
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Canccntration, up to I minute
The next time you hit a creature with a melee weapon
attack during this spell's duration, your weapon pierces
both body and mind, and the attack deals an extra
4d6 psychic damage to the target. The target must
make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, it has
disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks, and
can't take reactions, until the end of its next turno
STINKING  CLOUD
3rd-/evel conjuratiaIl
Casting Time: I action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V,S, M (a rotten egg or several skunk
cabbage leaves)
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
Vou create a 20-foot-radius sphere of yellow, nauseating
gas centered on a point within range. The c10ud spreads
around corners, and its area is hcavily obscured. The
cloud lingers in the air for the duratioll.
Each creature that is completely within the c1aud at
the startafits turn must make a Canstitutian saving
throw against paisano On a failed save, the creature
spends its actian that turn retching and reeling.
Creatures thatdan'tneedtobreathearare immune to
paison automatically succeed on this saving throw.
A maderate wind (at least 10 miles per hour) disperses
the c10ud after 4 rounds. A strong wind (at Jeast 20
miles per haur) disperses it after I round.
STONE  SHAPE
4th-levei transmutation
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M (50ft c1ay,which must be worked
into roughly the desired shape of the stone object)
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou touch a stone object of Medium size or smaller or
a section of stone no more than 5 feet in any dimension
and form it into any shape that suits your purpose. So,
for example, you could shape a large rock into a weapon,
idol, or coffer, or make a small passage through a wall,
as long as the wall is less than 5 feet thick. Vou could
also shape a stone door or its frame to seal the door
shut. The object you create can have up to two hinges
and a latch, but finer mechallical detail isn't possible.
STONESKIN
4th-levei abjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M (diamond dust worth 100 gp,
which the spell consumes)
Duration: COllcentration, up to I hour
----------------Page (67) Break----------------
This spell turns the flesh of a willing creature you touch
as hard as stone. Until the spell ends, the target has
resistance to nonmagical bludgeoning, piercing, and
slashing damage.
STORMOFVENGEANCE
9th-levei conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Sight
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A churning storm cloud forms, centered on a point you
can see and spreading to a radius of 360 fee!. Lightning
flashes in the area, thunder booms, and strong winds
roar. Each creature under the cloud (no more than 5,000
feet beneath the cloud) when it appears must make a
Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature
takes 2d6 thunder damage and becomes deafened
for 5 minutes.
Each round you maintain concentration on this spell,
the storm produces additional effects on your turno
Round2. Acidic rain falls from the cloud.
Each creature and object under the cloud takes
ld6 acid damage.
Round3.Vou call six bolts of lightning from the
cloud to strike six creatures or objects of your choice
beneath the cloud. A given creature or object can't be
struck by more than one boi!. A struck creature must
make a Dexterity saving throw. The creature takes
lOd6lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much
damage on a successful one.
Round4. Hailstones rain down from the
cloud. Each creature under the cloud takes 2d6
bludgeoning damage.
Round 5-10.Gusts and freezing rain assail the
area under the cloud. The area becomes difficult
terrain and is heavily obscured. Each creature there
takes ld6 cold damage. Ranged weapon attacks in
the area are impossible. The wind and rain count as
a severe distraction for the purposes of maintaining
concentration on spells. Finally, gusts of strong wind
(ranging from 20 to 50 miles per hour) automatically
disperse fog, mists, and similar phenomena in the area,
whether mundane or magical.
SUGGESTlON
2nd-levei enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,M (a snake's tongue and either a bit of
honeycomb or a drop of sweet oil)
Duration: Concentration, up to 8 hours
Vou suggest a course of activity (limited to a sentence
or two) and magically influence a creature you can
see within range that can hear and understandYOU.
Creatures that can't be charmed are immune to this
effec!. The suggestion must be worded in such a manner
as to make the course of action sound reasonable.
Asking the creature to stab itself, throw itself onto
a spear, immolate itself, or do some other obviously
harmful act ends the spell.
The target must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a
failed save, it pursues the course of action you described
to the best of its ability. The suggested course of action
can continue for the entire duration.Irthe suggested
activity can be completed in a shorter time, the spell
ends when the subject tinishes what it was asked to do.
Vou can also specify conditions lhat will trigger a
special activity during the duration. For example, you
might suggest that a knight give her warhorse to the
tirst beggar she meets.Irthe condition isn't met before
the spell expires, the activity isn't performed.Ir
you or any of your companions damage the target,
the spell ends.
SUNBEAM
6th-levei evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (60-foot line)
Components: V,S, M (a magnifying glass)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A beam of brilliant light flashes out from your hand
in a 5-foot-wide, 60-foot-long line. Each creature in
the line must make a Constitution saving throw. On a
failed save, a creature takes 6d8 radiant damage and
is blinded until your next turno On a successful save,
it takes half as much damage and isn't blinded by this
spell. Undead and oozes have disadvantage on this
saving throw.
Vou can create a new line of radiance as your action
on any turn until the spell ends.
For the duration, a mote of brilliant radiance shines in
your hand. It sheds bright light in a 30-foot radius and
dim light for an additional 30 fee!. This lighl is sunligh!.
SUNBURST
8th-leveI evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V,S, M (tire and a piece of sunstone)
Duration: Instantaneous
Brilliant sunlight flashes in a 60-foot radius centered
on a point you choose within range. Each creature in
that light must make a Constitution saving throw. On a
failed save, a creature takes 12d6 radiant damage and is
blinded for 1 minute. On a successful save, it takes half
as much damage and isn't blinded by this spell. Undead
and oozes have disadvantage on this saving throw.
A creature blinded by this spell makes another
Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns.
On a successful save, it is no longer blinded.
This spell dispels any darkness in its area that was
created by a spell.
SWIFTQurVER
5th-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M (a quiver containing at least one
piece of ammunition)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
PART 3ISPELLS279
----------------Page (68) Break----------------
280
--
Vou transmute your quiver so it produces an endless
supply of nonmagical ammunition, which seems to leap
into your hand when you reach for it.
On each of your turns until the spell ends, you can use
a bonus action to make two attacks with a weapon that
uses ammunition from the quiver. Each time you make
such a ranged attack, your quiver magically replaces
the piece of ammunition you used with a similar piece
of nonmagical ammunition. Any pieces of ammunition
created by this spell disintegrate when the spell ends.]f
the quiver leaves your possession, the spell ends.
SYMBOL
7th-levei abjuration
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M (mercury, phosphorus, and
powdered diamond and opa Iwith a total value of at
least 1,000 gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled or triggered
When you cast this spell, you inscribe a harmful glyph
either on a surface (such as a section of floor, a wall, or
a table) or within an object that can be c10sed to conceal
the glyph (such as a book, a scroll, or a treasure chest).
]fyou choose a surface, the glyph can cover an area of
the surface no larger than 10 feet in diameter. Ifyou
choose an object, that object must remain in its place; if
the object is moved more than 10 feet from where you
cast this spell, the glyph is broken, and the spell ends
without being triggered.
The glyph is nearly invisible, requiring an Intelligence
(lnvestigation) check against your spell save
DC to find it.
Vou decide what triggers the glyph when you cast the
spell. For glyphs inscribed on a surface, the most typical
triggers include touching or stepping on the glyph,
removing another object covering it, approaching within
a certain distance of it, or manipulating the object
that holds it. For glyphs inscribed within an object,
the most common triggers are opening the object,
approaching within a certain distance of it, or seeing or
reading the glyph.
Vou can further refine the trigger so the spell is
activated only under certain circumstances or according
to a creature's physical characteristics (such as height
or weight), or physical kind (for example, the ward could
be set to affect hags or shapechangers). Vou can also
specify creatures that don't trigger the glyph, such as
those who say a certain password.
When you inscribe the glyph, choose one of the
options below for its effect. Once triggered, the glyph
glows, filling a 60-foot-radius sphere with dim Iight
for 10 minutes, after which time the spell ends. Each
creature in the sphere when the glyph activates is
targcted by its effect, as is a creature that enters the
sphere for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there.
Death.Each target must make a Constitution saving
throw, taking IOdlO necrotic damage on a failed save, or
half as much damage on a successful save.
Discord.Each target must make a Constitution saving
throw. On a failed save, a target bickers and argues
with other creatures for 1 minute. During this time,
PART 3ISPELLS
it is incapable of meaningful communication and has
disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks.
Fear.Each target must make a Wisdom saving throw
and becomes frightened for 1 minute on a failed save.
While frightened, the target drops whatever it is holding
and must move at least 30 feet away from the glyph on
each of its turns, if able.
Hope/essness.Each target must make a Charisma
saving throw. On a failed save, the target is
overwhelmed with despair for 1 minute. During this
time, it can't attack or target any creature with harmful
abilities, spells, or other magical effects.
Insanity.Each target must make an lntelligence saving
throw. On a failed save, the target is driven insane for
1 minute. An insane creature can't take actions, can't
understand what other creatures say, can't read, and
speaks only in gibberish. The DM contrais its movement,
which is erratic.
Pain.Each target must make a Constitution saving
throw and becomes incapacitated with excruciating pain
for 1 minute on a failed save.
S/eep.Each target must make a Wisdom saving throw
and falls unconscious for 10 minutes on a failed save. A
creature awakens if it takes damage or if someone uses
an action to shake or slap it awake.
Stunning.Each target must make a Wisdom saving
throw and becomes stunned for 1 minute on a failed save.
TASHA'S HIDEOUS LAUGHTER
1st-levei enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S, M (tiny tarts and a feather that is
waved in the air)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A creature of your choice that you can see within range
perceives everything as hilariously funny and falls
into fits of laughter if this spell affects it. The target
must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or fali prone,
becoming incapacitated and unable to stand up for the
duration. A creature with an lntelligence score of 4 or
less isn't affected.
At the end of each of its turns, and each time it takes
damage, the target can make another Wisdom saving
throw. The target has advantage on the saving throw if
it's triggered by damage. On a success, the spell ends.
TELEKINESIS
5th.level trallsmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Vou gain the ability to move or manipulate creatures
or objects by thought. When you cast the spell, and as
your action each round for the duration, you can exert
your will on one creature or object that you can see
within range, causing the appropriate effect below. Vou
can affect the same target round after round, or choose
a new one at any time.]fyou switch targets, the prior
target is no longer affected by the spell.
----------------Page (69) Break----------------
you. Vour familiarily with the destinalion determines
whelher you arrive lhere successfully. The DM rolls
dlOO and consults the table.
Familiarity."Permanent circle" means a permanent
teleportation circle whose sigil sequence you know.
"Associaled object" means that you possess an objecl
taken from the desired destination within the last six
months, such as a book from a wizard's Iibrary, bed
linen from a royal suite, or a chunk of marble from a
lich's secret tombo
"Very familiar" is a place you have been very often, a
place you have carefully studied, or a place you can see
when you cast the spell. "Seen casually" is someplace
you have seen more than once bul wilh which you aren't
very familiar. "Viewed once" is a place you have seen
once, possibly using magic. "Description" is a place
whose Iocation and appearance you know through
someone else's description, perhaps from a map.
"False destination" is a place that doesn't exist.
Perhaps you tried to scry an enemy's sanctum but
instead viewed an illusion, or you are atlempting lo
teleport to a familiar localion that no longer exists.
00Target.Vou and your group (or the target objecl)
appear where you wanllo.
OffTarget.Vou and your group (or the larget object)
appear a random dislance away from the deslination
in a random direclion. Distance off target is Id 10 x
Id lO percent of the distance that was to be traveled.
For example, if you tried to traveI 120 miles, landed off
largel, and rolled a 5 and 3 on the two dlOs, lhen you
would be off largel by 15 percent, or 18 miles. The DM
determines lhe direction off targel randomly by rolling a
d8 and designaling I as north, 2 as northeast, 3 as easl,
and so on around lhe points of lhe compasso ]fyou were
teleporting lo a coastal city and wound up 18 miles out
at sea, you could be in trouble.
Similar Area.Vou and your group (or the targel
object) wind up in a different area that's visually or
themalically similar to the target area. ]f you are
heading for your home laboratory, for example, you
might wind up in another wizard's laboratory or in
an alchemical supply shop that has many of the same
tools and implemenls as your laboratory. Generally,
you appear in the closest similar place, bul since the
spell has no range Iimit, you could conceivably wind up
anywhere on the plane.
Mishap.The spell's unpredictable magic results in a
difficultjourney. Each leleporting crealure (or the largel
objecl) lakes 3d 10 force damage, and lhe DM rerolls on
Creature.Vou can lry to move a Huge or smaller
crealure. Make an abilily check wilh your spellcasting
ability contested by the crealure's Strength check. ]f
you win lhe contesl, you move the creature up to 30 feet
in any direclion, including upward but not beyond the
range of lhis spel!. Until the end of your nexllurn, the
creature is restrained in your telekinetic gripoA creature
Iifled upward is suspended in mid.air.
On subsequenl rounds, you can use your action lO
atlempl to maintain your telekinetic grip on the creature
by repealing lhe contest.
Object.Vou can try to move an objecl thal weighs
up to 1,000 pounds.lfthe  object isn't being worn or
carried, you automalically move il up lo 30 feet in any
direction, but not beyond lhe range of lhis spell.
If the object is worn or carried by a creature, you must
make an ability check wilh your spellcasting ability
contesled by lhat creature's Strenglh check. ]fyou
succeed, you pull the object away from that creature and
can move il up to 30 feel in any direclion but nol beyond
the range of this spel!.
Vou can exert fine conlrol on objecls with your
telekinetic grip, such as manipulaling a simple tool,
opening a door or a conlainer, stowing or relrieving
an item from an open container, or pouring the
contents from a via!'
TELEPATHY
8th./evel evocation
Casting Time: I aclion
Range: Unlimited
Components: V,S, M (a pair of Iinked silver rings)
Duration: 24 hours
Vou create a telepathic link between yourself and
a willing crealure with which you are familiar. The
creature can be anywhere on the same plane of
exislence as you. The spell ends ifyou or the largel are
no longer on the same plane.
Until the spell ends, you and the target can
inslantaneously share words, images, sounds, and
other sensory messages with one another through the
Iink, and lhe target recognizes you as the creature it
is communicating with. The spell enables a creature
wilh an Intelligence score of at least I to understand
lhe meaning of your words and lake in lhe scope of any
sensory messages you send lo 11.
TELEPORT
7th./evel conjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: 10 feel
Components: V
Duration: Inslantaneous
This spell instantly transports you and up to eight
willing creatures of your choice that you can see within
range, or a single object that you can see within range,
to a destination you select. Ifyou target an object, il
must be able to fit enlirely inside a lO.fool cube, and il
can't be held or carried by an unwilling crealure.
The destination you choose must be known to you,
and il musl be on the same plane of exislence as
Familiarily
Permanent circle
Associaled  objecl
Very familiar
Seen casually
Viewed once
Descriplion
False destinalion
Mishap
01-05
01-33
01-43
01-43
01-50
Similar
Area
06-13
34-43
44-53
44-53
51-100
Off
Targel
14-24
44-53
54-73
54-73
On
Targel
01-100
01-100
25-100
54-100
74-100
74-100
PART 3    PELLS281
----------------Page (70) Break----------------
the table to see where you wind up (multiple mishaps
can occur, dealing damage each time).
TELEPORTATION  CIRCLE
5th-leveI conjuration
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 10feet
Components: V,M (rare chalks and inks infused with
precious gems with 50 gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration: 1 round
As you cast the spell, you draw a lO-foot-diameter
circle on the ground inscribed with sigils that Iink
your location to a permanent teleportation circle of
your choice whose sigil sequence you know and that is
on the same plane of existence as you. Ashimmering
portal opens within the circle you drew and remains
open until the end of your next turn. Any creature that
enters the portal instantly appears within 5 feet of the
destination circle or in the nearest unoccupied space if
that space is occupied.
Many major tempIes, guilds, and other important
places have permanent teleportation circles inscribed
somewhere within their confines. Each such circle
includes a unique sigil sequence-a string of magical
runes arranged in a particular pattern. When you first
gain the ability to cast this spell, you learn the sigil
sequences for two destinations on the Material Plane,
determined by the DM.Voucan learn additional sigil
sequences during your adventures. Voucan commit
a new sigil sequence to memory after studying it
for 1 minute.
Voucan create a permanent teleportation circle by
casting this spell in the same location every day for one
year. Vouneed not use the circle to teleport when you
cast the spell in this way.
TENSER'S FLOATING DISK
1st-leveI conjuration (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S, M(a drop of mercury)
Duration: 1 hour
This spell creates a circular, horizontal plane of force,
3 feet in diameter and 1 inch thick, that lIoats 3 feet
above the ground in an unoccupied space ofyour choice
that you can see within range. The disk remains for the
duration, and can hold up to 500 pounds. If more weight
is placed on it, the spell ends, and everything on the disk
falls to the ground.
The disk is immobile while you are within 20 feet of
it. Ifyou move more than 20 feet away from it, the disk
follows you so that it remains within 20 feet ofYOU.It
can move across uneven terrain, up or down stairs,
slopes and the Iike. but it can't cross an e1evationchange
of 10feet or more. For example, the disk can't move
across a IO-foot-deep pit, nor could it leave such a pit if it
was created at the bottom.
Ifyou move more than 100 feet from the disk (typically
because it can't move around an obstacle to followyou),
the spell ends.
PART 3ISrELLS
THAUMATURGY
Transmutation cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Up to 1 minute
Voumanifest a minor wonder, a sign of supernatural
power, within range. Voucreate one of the following
magical effects within range:
Vourvoice booms up to three times as loud as normal
for 1 minute.
Voucause liames to lIicker, brighten, dim, or change
color for 1 minute.
Voucause harmless tremors in the ground for 1
minute.
Voucreate an instantaneous sound that originates
from a point ofyour choice within range, such as a
rumble of thunder, the cry of a raven, or ominous
whispers.
Vouinstantaneously cause an unlocked door or win-
dow to lIyopen or slam shut.
Voualter the appearance ofyour eyes for 1 minute.
Ifyou cast this spell multipIe times, you can have up to
three of its l-minute effects active at a time, and you can
dismiss such an effect as an action.
THORNWHIP
Transmutation cantrip
Casting Time: 1action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S, M (the stem of a plant with thorns)
Duration: 1nstantaneous
Voucreate a long, vine-Iike whip covered in thorns that
lashes out at your command toward a creature in range.
Make a melee spell attack against the target. ]f the
attack hits, the creature takes 1d6 piercing damage, and
if the creature is Large or smaller, you pull the creature
up to 10 feet c10ser to you.
This spell's damage increases by 1d6 when you reach
5th leveI(2d6), 11th levei (3d6), and 17th leveI(4d6).
THUNDEROUS SMITE
1st-leveI evocation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
The first time you hit with a melee weapon attack
during this spell's duration, your weapon rings with
thunder that is audible within 300 feet ofyou, and the
attack deals an extra 2d6 thunder damage to the target.
Additionally, if the target is a creature, it must succeed
on a Strength saving throw or be pushed 10feet away
from you and knocked prone.
THUNDERWAVE
1st-leveI evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (15-foot cube)
----------------Page (71) Break----------------
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
A wave of thunderous foree sweeps out from you. Eaeh
ereature in a 15-foot eube originating from you must
make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a
ereature takes 2d8 thunder damage and is pushed 10
feet away from you. On a sueeessful save, the ereature
takes half as mueh damage and isn't pushed.
In addition, unseeured objeets that are eompletely
within the area of effeet are automatically pushed 10 feet
away from you by the spell's effeet, and the spell emits a
thunderous boom audible out to 300 feet.
At Higher LeveIs.When you east this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd leveI or higher, the damage inereases by
ld8 for eaeh slot leveI above 1st.
TIMESTOP
9th-levei transmutation
Casting Time: 1 aetion
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou briefly stop the flow of time for everyone but
yourself. No time passes for other ereatures, while you
take Id4+1 turns in a row, during which you ean use
aetions and move as normal.
This spell ends if one of the aetions you use during
this period, or any effeets that you ereate during this
period, affeets a ereature other than you or an objeet
being worn or earried by someone other than you. In
addition, the spell ends ifyou move to a plaee more than
1,000 feet from the loeation where you east it.
TONGUES
3rd-/evel divination
Casting Time: I aetion
Range: Toueh
Components: V,M (a small day model of a ziggurat)
Duration: 1 hour
This spell grants the ereature you toueh the ability to
understand any spoken language it hears. Moreover,
when the target speaks, any ereature that knows at
least one language and ean hear the target understands
what it says.
TRANSPORTVIAPLANTS
6th-levei eonjuration
Casting Time: 1 aetion
Range: 10 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: 1 round
This spell ereates a magieallink between a Large or
larger inanimate plant within range and another plant,
at any distanee, on the same plane of existence. Vou
must have seen or touched the destination plant at least
onee before. For the duration, any creature can step into
the target plant and exit from the destination plant by
using 5 feet of movement.
TREESTRIDE
5th-leveI conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range:Self
Components: V,S
Duration: Coneentration, up to 1 minute
Vou gain the ability to enter a tree and move from inside
it to inside another tree of the same kind within 500
feet. Both trees must be living and at least the same size
as you. Vou must use 5 feet of movement to enter a tree.
Vou instantly know the location of ali other trees of the
same kind within 500 feet and, as part of the move used
to enter the tree, ean either pass into one of those trees
or step out of the tree you're in. Vou appear in a spot of
your choice within 5 feet of the destination tree, using
another 5 feet of movement. Ifyou have no movement
left, you appear within 5 feet of the tree you entered.
Vou can use this transportation ability once per round
for the duration. Vou must end each turn outside a tree.
TRUEPOLYMORPH
9th-levei transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S, M (a drop of mereury, a dolIop of
gum arabic, and a wisp of smoke)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Choose one ereature or nonmagical objeet that you
can see within range. Vou transform the creature into
a different creature, the ereature into an object, or the
objeet into a creature (the object must be neither worn
nor earried by another creature). The transformation
lasts for the duration, or until the target drops toOhit
points or dies. Ifyou concentrate on this spelI for the fulI
duration, the transformation beeomes permanent.
Shapechangers aren't affected by this spell. An
unwilIing creature ean make a Wisdom saving throw,
and if it sueeeeds, it isn't affected by this spell.
Creature into Creature.Ifyou turn a creature into
another kind of creature, the new form can be any kind
you choose whose ehalIenge rating is equal to or less
than the target's (or its leveI. if the target doesn't have a
chalIenge rating). The target's game statistics, induding
mental ability scores, are replaced by the statisties of
the new formo It retains its alignment and personality.
The target assumes the hit points of its new form,
and when it reverts to its normal form, the creature
returns to the number of hit points it had before it
transformed. If it reverts as a result of dropping to
Ohit points, any excess damage carries over to its
normal formoAs long as the excess damage doesn't
reduce the creature's normal form toOhit points, it isn't
knocked unconscious.
The creature is limited in the actions it can perform by
the nature of its new form, and it can't speak, east spelIs,
or take any other action that requires hands or speech,
unless its new form is capable of such actions.
The target's gear melds into the new formo The
creature can't activate, use, wield, or otherwise benelit
from any of its equipment.
PART 3  SPELLS
----------------Page (72) Break----------------
Object into Creature.Vou can turn an object into
any kind of creature, as long as the creature's size
is no larger than the object's size and the creature's
cha11enge rating is 9 or lower. The creature is friendly to
you and your companions. It acts on each of your turns.
Vou decide what action it takes and how it moves. The
DM has the creature's statislics and resolves ali of its
actions and movement.
[f the spe11becomes permanent, you no longer control
the creature. It might remain friendly to you, depending
on how you have treated it.
Creature into Object.Ifyou turn a creature into an
object, it transforms along with whatever it is wearing
and carrying into that formoThe creature's statistics
become those of the object, and the creature has no
rÍlemory of time spent in this form, after the spe11ends
and it returns to its normal formo
TRUE RESURRECTION
9th.level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M (a sprinkle of holy water and
diamonds worth at least 25,000 gp, which the
spe11consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou touch a creature that has been dead for no longer
than 200 years and that died for any reason except
old age. If the creature's sou I is free and wi11ing,the
creature is restored to life with a11its hit points.
This spe11doses a11wounds, neutralizes any poison,
cures a11diseases, and lifts any curses affecting the
crealure when it died. The spell replaces damaged or
missing organs and limbs.
The spe11can even provide a new body if the original
no longer exists, in which case you must speak the
creature's name, The creature then appears in an
unoccupied space you choose within 10 feet of you.
TRUE SEEING
6th.level divination
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M (an ointment for the eyes that
costs 25 gp; is made from mushroom powder, saffron,
and fat; and is consumed by the spe11)
Duration: 1 hou r
This spe11gives the willing creature you touch the ability
to see things as they actually are. For the duration, the
creature has truesight, notices secret doors hidden by
magic, and can see into the Ethereal Plane, ali out to a
range of 120 feet.
TRUE STRIKE
Divination cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 round
Vou extend your hand and point a finger at a target in
range. Vour magic grants you a brief insight into the
I'ART 3ISI'ELLS
target's defenses. On your next turn, you gain advantage
on your first attack roll against lhe target, provided that
this spe11hasn't ended.
TSUNAMI
8th-levei conjuration
Casting Time: I minute
Range: Sight
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentralion, up to 6 rounds
A wall of water springs into existence at a point you
choose within range, Vou can make the wall up to 300
feel long, 300 feet high, and 50 feet thick. The walllasts
for the duration.
When lhe wall appears, each creature within its area
must make a Strength saving throw. On a failed save,
a creature takes 6dlO bludgeoning damage, or half as
much damage on a successful save.
At the start of each of your turns after the wall
appears, the wa11,along with any creatures in it, moves
50 feet away fromYOU.Any Huge or smaller creature
inside the wall or whose space the wall enters when
it moves must succeed on a Strength saving throw or
take 5dlO bludgeoning damage. A creature can take
this damage only once per round. At the end of the turn,
the wall's height is reduced by 50 feet, and the damage
creatures take from the spell on subsequent rounds is
reduced by IdlO. When the wa11reaches Ofeet in height,
the spe11ends.
A creature caught in the wall can move by swimming.
Because of the force of the wave, though, the creature
must make a successful Strength (Athletics) check
against your spell save DC in order to move at alI. If it
fails the check, it can't move, A creature that moves out
of the area faIls to the ground.
UNSEEN SERVANT
1st-levei conjuration (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S, M (a piece of string and
a bit of wood)
Duration: 1 hour
This speIl creates an invisible, mindless, shapeless
force that performs simple tasks at your command until
the speIl ends. The servant springs into existence in an
unoccupied space on the ground within range. It has AC
10, I hit point, and a Strength of 2, and it can't attack. [f
it drops to Ohit points, the speIl ends.
Once on each of your turns as a bonus action, you can
mentaIly command the servant to move up to 15 feet and
interact with an object. The servant can perform simple
tasks that a human servant could do, such as felching
things, c1eaning, mending, folding c1othes, lighting
fires, serving food, and pouring wine. Once you give the
command, the servant performs the task to the best of
its ability until it completes the task, then waits for your
next command.
If you command the servant to perform a task that
would move it more than 60 feet away from you,
the spe11ends.
----------------Page (73) Break----------------
VAMPIRIC TOUCH
3rd-Jevel necromancy
Casting Time: I action
Range: Self
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
The touch of your shadow-wreathed hand can siphon life
force from others to heal your wounds. Make a melee
spell attack against a creature wilhin your reach. On
a hit, the target takes 3d6 necrotic damage, and you
regain hit points equal to half the amount of necratic
damage dealt. Until the spell ends, you can make the
attack again on each of your turns as an action.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th levei ar higher, the damage increases by
Id6 for each slot levei above 3rd.
VICIOUS MOCKERY
Enchantmentcantrip
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou unleash a string of insults laced with subtle
enchantments at a creature you can see within range. lf
the target can hear you (though it need not understand
you), it must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw ar take
Id4 psychic damage and have disadvantage on the next
attack rall it makes before the end of its next turo.
This spell's damage increases by Id4 when you reach
5th levei (2d4), 11th levei (3d4), and 17th levei (4d4).
WALL OF FIRE
4th-leveI evocation
Casting Time: I action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S, M (a small piece of phosphorus)
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
Vou create a wall of fire on a solid surface within
range. Vou can make the wall up to 60 feet long, 20
feet high, and I foot thick, ar a ringed wall up to 20 feet
in diameter, 20 feet high, and I foot thick. The wall is
opaque and lasts for the duration.
When the wall appears, each creature within its area
must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a
creature takes 5d8 fire damage, ar half as much damage
on a successful save.
One side of the wall, selected by you when you cast
this spell, deals 5d8 fire damage to each creature lhat
ends its turo within 10 feet of that side ar inside the
wal!. A creature takes the same damage when it enters
the wall for the first time on a turo ar ends its turo there.
The other side of the wall deals no damage.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast lhis spell using a
spell slot of 5th levei ar higher, the damage increases by
Id8 for each slot levei above 4th.
WALL OF FORCE
5th-leveI evocation
Casting Time: I action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S, M (a pinch of powder made by
crushing a clear gemstone)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
An invisible wall of force springs into existence at a
point you choose within range. The wall appears in
any orientation you choose, as a horizontal ar vertical
barrier ar at an angle. It can be free floating ar resting
on a solid surface. Vou can form it into a hemispherical
dome ar a sphere with a radius of up to 10 feet, ar you
can shape a flat surface made up of ten IO-foot-by-
IO-foot panels. Each panel must be contiguous with
another pane!. In any form, the wall is 1/4 inch thick.
1tlasts for the duration. If the wall cuts through a
creature's space when it appears, the creature is pushed
to one side of the wall (your choice which side).
Nothing can physically pass through the wal!. It is
immune to ali damage and can't be dispelled bydispel
magic.Adisintegratespell destroys the wall instantly,
however. The wall also extends into the Ethereal Plane,
blocking ethereal travei through the wall.
WALL OF ICE
6th-leveI evocation
Casting Time: I action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S, M (a small piece of quartz)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Vou create a wall of ice on a solid surface within range.
Vou can form it into a hemispherical dome ar a sphere
with a radius of up to 10 feet, ar you can shape a flat
surface made up of ten IO-foot-square panels. Each
panel must be contiguous with another pane!. In any
form, the wall is I foot thick and lasts for the duration.
If the wall cuts through a creature's space when it
appears, the creature within its area is pushed to one
side of the wall and must make a Dexterity saving throw.
On a failed save, the creature takes IOd6 cold damage,
ar half as much damage on a successful save.
The wall is an object that can be damaged and thus
breached. 1thas AC 12 and 30 hit points per IO-foot
section, and it is vulnerable to fire damage. Reducing
a 10-foot section ofwall to Ohit points destrays it and
leaves behind a sheet of frigid air in the space the wall
occupied. A creature moving thraugh the sheet of frigid
air for the first time on aturo must make a Constitution
saving thraw. That creature takes 5d6 cold damage on a
failed save, ar half as much damage on a successful one.
At Higher LeveIs.When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 7th levei ar higher, the damage the wall
deals when it appears increases by 2d6, and the damage
fram passing through the sheet of frigid air increases by
Id6, for each slot levei above 6th.
PAR'I3ISPELLS
----------------Page (74) Break----------------

----------------Page (75) Break----------------
WALLOFSTONE
5th-leveI evocation
Casting Time: 1 aclion
Range: 120 feel
Components: V,S, M(a small block of granile)
Duration: Concenlralion, up lO10minules
A nonmagical wall of solid slone springs inlo exislence
aI a poinl you choose wilhin range. The wa11is 6 inches
lhick and is composed of len lO-foOl-by-lO-foOIpanels.
Each panel musl be conliguous wilh alleasl one olher
pane!. AIlernatively. you can creale 10-foOl-by-20-fool
panels lhat are only 3 inches lhick.
If lhe wall culs lhrough a crealure's space when il
appears, lhe crealure is pushed lo one side of lhe wa11
(your choice). lf a creature would be surrounded on a11
sides by lhe wa11(or lhe wa11and anolher solid surface),
lhal crealure can make a Dexlerity saving lhrow. On a
success, il can use ils reaclion lo move up lo ils speed so
lhat il is no longer enclosed by lhe wall.
The wall can have any shape you desire, lhough il
can'l occupy lhe same space as a crealure or objecl.
The wall doesn'l need lo be verlical or resl on any firm
foundalion. It musl. however, merge wilh and be solidly
supporled by exisling slone. Thus, you can use lhis spell
lo bridge a chasm or creale a ramp.
Ifyou creale a span grealer lhan 20 feel in lenglh, you
musl halve lhe size of each panello creale supporls.
Voucan crudely shape lhe walllo creale crenellalions,
balllemenls, and so on.
The wall is an objecl made of stone that can be
damaged and lhus breached. Each panel has AC 15 and
30 hit points per inch of thickness. Reducing a panel
lo Ohit points destroys it and might cause connected
panels to collapse aI the DM's discrelion.
lf you maintain your concentralion on this spell for
its whole duralion, the wall becomes permanenl and
can't be dispelled. Olherwise, lhe wall disappears when
the spell ends.
WALLOFTHORNS
6th-leveI conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feel
Components: V,S, M (a handful of lhorns)
Duration: Concenlralion, up to 10 minules
Voucreale a wa11of lough, pliable. langled brush
brislling with needle-sharp lhorns. The wa11appears
within range on a solid surface and lasls for lhe
duralion. Vouchoose lOmake lhe wall up lo 60 feel
long, 10feel high, and 5 feellhick or a circle lhal has
a 20-fool diameler and is up lo 20 feel high and 5 feel
lhick. The wall blocks line of sighl.
When lhe wall appears, each crealure wilhin ils area
musl make a Dexlerily saving lhrow. On a failed save,
a crealure lakes 7d8 piercing damage, or half as much
damage on a successful save.
Acrealure can move lhrough lhe wall, albeil slowly
and painfully. For every 1 fool a creature moves
lhrough lhe wa11,il musl spend 4 feel of movemenl.
Furlhermore, lhe firsllime a crealure enlers lhe wall
on a lurn or ends its lurn lhere, lhe crealure musl
make a Dexlerily saving throw. It takes 7d8 slashing
damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a
successful one.
At Hil1her LeveIs.When you casllhis spe11using a
spe11slol of 71hlevei or higher, boIh lypes of damage
increase by Id8 for each slollevel above 61h.
WARDINGBOND
2nd-leveI abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M (a pair of plalinum rings worlh aI
leasl 50 gp each, which you and lhe largel musl wear
for lhe duralion)
Duration: 1 hour
This spell wards a willing crealure you louch and
creales a myslic conneclion belween you and lhe largel
unlillhe spell ends. While lhe largel is wilhin 60 feel of
you. il gains a +1 bonus lo ACand saving lhrows, and
il has resislance lo ali damage. AIso, each lime il lakes
damage, you lake lhe same amount of damage.
The spell ends ifyou drop lo Ohil poinls or ifyou
and lhe largel become separaled bymore lhan 60 feel.
It also ends if lhe spell is casl again on eilher of lhe
connecled crealures. Voucan also dismiss lhe spell
as an aclion.
WATERBREATHING
3rd-Ievel transmutation (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 aclion
Range: 30 feel
Components: V,S, M(a shorl reed or piece of slraw)
Duration: 24 hours
This spell granls up lo ten willing crealures you can see
wilhin range lhe abilily lo brealhe underwaler unlillhe
spell ends. Affecled crealures also relain lheir normal
mode of respiralion.
WATERWALK
3rd-Ievel transmutation (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 aclion
Range: 30 feel
Components: V,S, M(a piece of cork)
Duration: 1 hour
This spell granls lhe abilily lo move across any Iiquid
surface-such as waler, acid, mud, snow, quicksand,
or lava-as if il were harmless solid ground (crealures
crossing mollen lava can slilllake damage from lhe
heal). Up lo len willing crealures you can see wilhin
range gain lhis abilily for the duralion.
lf you largel a crealure submerged in a Iiquid, the
spell carries lhe largello lhe surface of the liquid aI a
rale of 60 feel per round.
WEB
2nd-leveI conjuration
Casting Time: 1aclion
Range: 60 feel
Components: V,S, M(a bil of spiderweb)
Duration: Concenlration, up to 1hour
PART.3    Pil
----------------Page (76) Break----------------
288
Vou conjure a mass of thiek, stieky webbing at a point of
your ehoice within range, The webs fill a 20-foot eube
from that point for the duration, The webs are diffieult
terrain and lightly obseure their area.
If the webs aren't anehored between two solid masses
(sueh as walls or trees) or layered aeross a floar, wall,
or eeiling, the eonjured web eollapses on itself, and the
spell ends at the start of your next turn. Webs layered
over a flat surfaee have a depth of 5 feel.
Eaeh ereature that starts its turn in the webs or that
enters them during its turn must make a Dexterity
saving throw. On a failed save, the ereature is restrained
as long as it remains in the webs or until it breaks free.
A ereature restrained by the webs ean use its aetion to
make a Strength eheek against your spell save De. If it
sueeeeds, it is no longer restrained.
The webs are flammable. Any 5-foot eube of webs
exposed to fire burns away in 1 round, dealing 2d4 fire
damage to any ereature that starts its turn in the /ire.
WEIRD
9th-levei illusion
Casting Time: 1 aetion
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Coneentration, up to one minute
Drawing on the deepest fears of a group of ereatures,
you ereate illusory ereatures in their minds, visible
only to them. Eaeh ereature in a 30-foot-radius
sphere eentered on a point of your ehoice within
range must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed
save, a ereature beeomes frightened for the duration.
The illusion ealls on the ereature's deepest fears,
manifesting its worst nightmares as an implaeable
threal. At the start of eaeh of the frightened ereature's
turns, it must sueeeed on a Wisdom saving throw or
take 4dlO psyehie damage. On a sueeessful save, the
spell ends for that ereature.
WINDWALK
6th-levei transmutation
CastingTime:I minute
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S, M (/ire and holy water)
Duration: 8 hours
PART 3ISPELLS
Vou and up to ten willing ereatures you ean see
within range assume a gaseous form for the duration,
appearing as wisps of c1oud. While in this c10ud form,
a ereature has a flying speed of 300 feet and has
resistanee to damage from nonmagieal weapons. The
only aetions a ereature ean take in this form are the
Dash aetion or to revert to its normal formo Reverting
takes I minute, during whieh time a ereature is
ineapacitated and ean't move. Until the spell ends, a
ereature ean revert to c10ud form, whieh also requires
the I-minute transformation.
If a ereature is in c10ud form and flying when the effeet
ends, the ereature deseends 60 feet per round for 1
minute until it lands, which it does safely. If it ean't land
after 1 minute, the ereature falls the remaining distanee.
WINDWALL
3rd-/evel evocation
CastingTime:1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S, M (a tiny fan and a feather of
exotic origin)
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
A wall of strong wind rises from the ground at a point
you choose within range. Vou ean make the wall up
to 50 feet long, 15 feet high, and 1 foot thick. Vou ean
shape the wall in any way you ehoose so long as it
makes one continuous path along the ground. Thewall
lasts for the duration.
When the wall appears, each creature within its area
must make a Strength saving throw. A ereature takes
3d8 bludgeoning damage on a failed save, or half as
much damage on a successful one.
The strong wind keeps fog, smoke, and other gases at
bay. Small or smaller flying ereatures or objects can't
pass through the wall. Loose, Iightweight materiais
brought into the wall flyupward. Arrows, bolts, and
other ordinary projectiles launehed at targets behind
the wall are deflected upward and automatically miss.
(Boulders hurled by giants or siege engines, and similar
projectiles, are unaffeeted.) Creatures in gaseous form
can't pass through il.
WISH
9th-levei conjuration
Casting Time: I aelion
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Wishis the mightiest spell a mortal ereature can
easl. By simply speaking aloud, you can alter the very
foundations of reality in accord with your desires.
The basic use of this spell is to duplieate any other
spell of 8th levei or lower. Vou don't need to meet any
requirements in that spell, including costly eomponents.
The spell simply takes effecl.
Alternatively, you ean ereate one of the following
effecls of your ehoice:
Vou ereale one object of up to 25,000 gp in value thal
isn't a magic item. The objeel ean be no more than
----------------Page (77) Break----------------
300 feet in any dimension, and it appears in an unoc-
cupied space you can see on the ground,
Vou allow up to twenty creatures that you can see to
regain ali hit points, and you end ali effects on them
described in thegreater restorationspel!.
Vou grant up to ten creatures that you can see resis-
tance to a damage type you choose.
Vou grant up to ten creatures you can see immunity to
a single spell or other magical effect for 8 hours. For
instance, you could make yourself and ali your com-
panions immune to a Iich's Iife drain attack.
Vou undo a single recent event by forcing a reroll of
any roll made within the last round (including your
last tum). Reality reshapes itself to accommodate the
new result. For example, awishspell could undo an
opponent's successful save, a foe's criticai hit, or a
friend's failed save. Vou can force the reroll to be made
with advantage or disadvantage, and you can choose
whether to use the reroll or the original roll.
Vou might be able to achieve something beyond the
scope of the above examples. State your wish to the DM
as precisely as possible. The DM has great latitude in
ruling what occurs in such an instance; the greater the
wish, the greater the Iikelihood that something goes
wrong. This spell might simply fail, the effect you desire
might only be partly achieved, or you might suffer some
unforeseen consequence as a result of how you worded
the wish. For example, wishing that a villain were dead
might propel you forward in time to a period when that
villain is no longer alive, effectively removing you from
the game. Similarly, wishing for a legendary magic item
or artifact might instantly transport you to the presence
of the item's current owner.
The stress of casting this spell to produce any effect
other than duplicating another spell weakens you. After
enduring that stress, each time you cast a spell until
you finish a long rest, you take IdlO necrotic damage
per leveI of that spel!. This damage can't be reduced or
prevented in any way. In addition, your Strength drops
to 3, if it isn't 3 or lower already, for 2d4 days. For each
of those days that you spend resting and doing nothing
more than Iight activity, your remaining recovery time
decreases by 2 days. Finally, there is a 33 percent
chance that you are unable to castwishever again ifyou
suffer this stress.
WITCH BOLT
1st-levei evocation
Casting Time: I action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S, M (a twig from a tree that has been
struck by lightning)
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
A beam of crackling, blue energy lances out toward
a creature within range, forming a sustained are of
Iightning between you and the target. Make a ranged
spell attack against that creature. On a hit, the target
takes Idl2 lightning damage, and on each ofyour tums
for the duration, you can use your action to deal ldl2
lightning damage to the target automatically. The spell
ends ifyou use your action to do anything else. The spell
also ends if the target is ever outside the spell's range or
if it has total cover from you.
At Higher Leveis.When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd levei ar higher, the initial damage
increases by ldl2 for each slot levei above 1st.
WORD OF RECALL
6th-ievel conjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: 5 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou and up to five willing creatures within 5 feet of you
instantly teleport to a previously designated sanctuary.
Vou and any creatures that teleport with you appear in
the nearest unoccupied space to the spot you designated
when you prepared your sanctuary (see below). ]f you
cast this spell without first preparing a sanctuary, the
spell has no effect.
Vou must designate a sanctuary by casting this spell
within a location, such as a temple, dedicated to or
strongly Iinked to your deity. Ifyou attempt to cast the
spell in this manner in an area that isn't dedicated to
your deity, the spell has no effect.
WRATHFUL SMITE
1st-ievei evocation
Casting Time: I bonus action
Range:Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
The next time you hit with a melee weapon attack
during this spell's duration, your attack deals an extra
Id6 psychic damage. Additionally, if the target is a
creature, it must make a Wisdom saving throw or be
frightened of you until the spell ends. As an action, the
creature can make a Wisdom check against your spell
save DC to steel its resolve and end this spel!.
ZONE OF TRUTH
2nd-ievei enchantment
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: 10 minutes
Vou create a magical zone that guards against deception
in a 15-foot-radius sphere centered on a point of your
choice within range. Until the spell ends, a creature
that enters the spell's area for the first time on atum
or starts its tum there must make a Charisma saving
throw. On a failed save, a creature can't speak a
deliberate lie while in the radius. Vou know whether
each creature succeeds or fails on its saving throw.
An affected creature is aware of the spell and can thus
avoid answering questions to which it would normally
respond with alie. Such a creature can be evasive in
its answers as long as it remains within the boundaries
aflhe lrulh.
PART 3ISPELLS289
----------------Page (78) Break----------------
